Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, February 4, 2025

MINUTES

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Brown called the regular meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.

Other Board members present: Harold Fong, Paul Keefer, Bina Lefkovitz, Vanessa
Caigoy, Mariana Corona Sabeniano, and Heather Davis. SCOE Appointed Board
Member Representing Students Judith Marquez (arrived at 6:40 p.m.) was present.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Dr.
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; General Counsel Elizabeth Linton; Associate
Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer, Assistant Superintendents Michael Kast, and
Jacqueline “Jackie” White; Executive Directors Xanthi Soriano and Jerry Jones; Director
Shanine Coats, and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Davis led the Pledge of Allegiance. President Brown read a Land
Acknowledgement.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

There were no public comments.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no presentations from employee organizations.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of December 10, 2024

Motion to approve by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.



                                                                                      1
02.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented by Trustee Fong,
   second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

On January 25, President Brown, Superintendent Gordon, and several SCOE staff,
attended the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. celebration at Sacramento State. They sat with
members of Congresswoman Doris Matsui’s staff, and in addition to congratulating
involved community members, they celebrated twelve outstanding Sacramento County
high school students for winning the MLK essay competition. The keynote speaker, Lisa
McNair, shared a story of tragedy, triumph, and unity drawing upon the profound
lessons she learned from the tragic loss of her sister, Denise, in the 1963 Church
Bombing in Birmingham, AL.

On January 28-29, SCOE launched its first day of the Civic Learning Initiative for
Elementary Schools, a professional development program designed for teachers of
grades 3-6. During the institute, teachers were introduced to the new Sacramento
County Civic Recognition Program, which will honor younger students who meet certain
civic action criteria aligned with the high school State Seal of Civic Engagement. There
will be a third day of training on March 25. It will conclude with a Civic Learning
Showcase and Awards Ceremony on May 17 to honor participants and their
achievements.

On January 23, SCOE, in collaboration with My Brother’s Keeper Sacramento and
MENTOR California, hosted an inspiring event in celebration of Mentoring Month. Thank
you to Assistant Superintendent Jackie White and your team for your work.

Assistant Superintendent Channa Pitt has been attending local school board meetings
to provide an overview of our Sacramento County READS initiative. Members of the
Sacramento Literacy Coalition have also been attending school board meetings to
advocate for the adoption of a resolution on literacy, inspired by the Sacramento County
Board of Education's own resolution. To date, the response has been positive and

                                                                                       2
02.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes
several boards plan to take action to adopt a similar resolution. Special thank you to
Trustees Caigoy and Lefkovitz who have also been lending their support by providing
public comment at these meetings.

Director of K-12 English Language Arts, Becky Sullivan, who is the project lead for the
Literacy Coaches and Reading Specialists Educator Training Grant, was accepted to
the State Literacy Team for a second time. This work will be tied to the Comprehensive
Literacy State Development federal grant that California was awarded.

Our Outreach and Technical Assistance Network (OTAN) has been selected as the
recipient of the Coalition on Adult Basic Education’s (COABE) 2025 State Innovation of
the Year Award—a prestigious honor recognizing outstanding contributions to the field.
This award will be formally presented at the 2025 COABE National Conference in
Dallas, Texas. SCOE will also receive $2,000 in recognition of our impact. This
achievement reflects the dedication, innovation, and passion that drive our work in
EdTech and adult education, underscoring the far-reaching effects of our efforts.

SCOE’s Career Pipeline is recruiting participants for its 4th year. The Mental Health and
Wellness Career Pipeline is recruiting full-time college students who are interested in
pursuing a career in mental health and wellness and serving in our schools. Inquiries
may be directed to our Career Pipeline website and to the Career Pipeline Team, led by
Shanine Coats.

On February 1, we held the Academic Decathlon Super Quiz and Awards Ceremony at
Folsom High School. This year’s theme was “Our Changing Climate,” and Executive
Director Xanthi Soriano stepped in to be our Quiz Reader and MC for the awards
ceremony. Thank you, President Brown for attending.

On February 5, in collaboration with the Civic Education Center, Teach Democracy, and
the Public Policy Institute of California, SCOE will host the first day of the two-day
California Civic Learning Summit at the California Museum located in Sacramento. A
broad audience of K-12 teachers, school administrators, school board members,
policymakers, and others are expected to attend. We will hear from keynote speakers
Tani Cantil-Sakauye, CEO of the Public Policy Institute of California tomorrow, and the
Honorable Patricia Guerrero, Chief Justice of California on the second day. Other topics
include Civic Learning in Elementary Schools, Implementing Civic Learning within the
School Program from a school administrator perspective, and more. The Civic Learning
Youth Summit also starts tomorrow and is intended for high school students. It takes
place at the Sheraton Grand on the first day and the high school students will join the
Summit at the California Museum for Day 2.

On February 5, our School of Education will host SCOE’s Poetry Out Loud competition
at the SCOE Conference Center.

Also, on February 5 Sacramento County School Boards Association Dinner Meeting
takes place at 6:00 p.m. in the Mather Room. Our guest speaker is Kevin Gordon,

                                                                                          3
02.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes
President of Capitol Advisors. His presentation is titled, “A New Administration Takes
Over in Washington: What Will This Mean for Education in California, and How Do We
Prepare?

On February 10, we will hold the final Mock Trial at the Federal Courthouse. The award
ceremony starts after the trial at 8:00 p.m. at the Library Galleria located in Sacramento.

The Sly Park Environmental Education Center is receiving an award from Partnership
for Quality Living for Hall of Honor as a "Regional Treasure" Recognition. The award will
be presented during the California Park & Recreation Society District 2 Awards and
Installation Banquet on Wednesday, February 26, from 4:30 to 7 p.m. at the Rocklin
Event Center. President Brown, Trustee Davis, Sly Park Director Jeremy Meyers, and
Superintendent Gordon will be present to accept the award.

B. Recognition of the March Employees of the Month - Xanthi Soriano

Clint Duke, an Accounting Technician in the Financial Services Department, was
recognized and honored as the March Classified Employee of the Month.

Todd Gillihan, a teacher at Sly Park, was recognized and honored as the March
Certificated Employee of the Month.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Corona
Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Declaration of Equipment Listed as Surplus Property and Authorization to Dispose of
Equipment Pursuant to Education Code - Jerry Jones

D. Approval of the 2023-2024 School Accountability Report Cards for Court and
Community Schools and Special Education Programs - Jacqueline White/Michael Kast

E. Deferred Maintenance and Modernization Projects – Nicolas Schweizer

F. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White/
Michael Kast




                                                                                          4
02.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes
Assistant Superintendent White announced that 14 students have graduated and will
receive diplomas: three candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. - Senior Extension,
three candidates from Cordova Lane Senior Extension, five candidates from El Centro
Jr./Sr. High School, and three candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

Motion by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Keefer.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Fong to approve authorization to submit
grant applications/service contracts and accept funding if awarded, and approval of
contracts, positions, and other expenditures associated with the grants as outlined in
the proposed budget.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

A. K12 Strong Workforce Program - Postsecondary Transition Plan Grant - Jacqueline
White

B. K12 Strong Workforce Program - Farm to Fork Grant - Jacqueline White

C. 2024 State & Local Cybersecurity Grant Program - Jerry Jones

10. New Business - Other

A. Authorization to Enter into Contracts for E-Rate Eligible Services - Jerry Jones

Motion by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano to approve
authorization to enter into contracts for E-Rate Eligible Services.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

B. Proposed Board Meeting Dates for 2025-2026 - Wende Watson




                                                                                         5
02.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes
There was a suggestion and discussion regarding adding additional meetings to the
Board meeting schedule, including identifying a date for a retreat in August.

Superintendent Gordon stated that the retreat date could be scheduled in August and
proposed the third week of August based on the suggestions made by Board members.

Motion by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano to approve the Board
Meeting Dates for 2025-2026.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown
No: Fong, Caigoy

C. Authorization for Out-of-State Travel for Trustees attending Coast2Coast Conference
- David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Caigoy to approve Out-of-State Travel for
Trustees Lefkovitz and Corona Sabeniano to attend the Coast2Coast Conference in
Washington, DC.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy
Abstain: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz

D. Authorization for Out-of-State Travel for Trustees attending Capitol-to-Capitol
Conference - David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Fong to approve Out-of-State Travel for
Trustees Lefkovitz and Brown to attend the Cap-to-Cap Conference in Washington, DC.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Caigoy
Abstain: Lefkovitz, Brown

E. Governor's Budget - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Nick Schweizer presented the report on the Governor's
Budget.

F. Board Report - The Arts Initiative - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent Jackie White and Arts Coordinator Jasmin Martinez presented
the Arts Initiative Board Report.

G. Adoption of Board Resolution No. 25-01 - Approving Membership in Association of
California County Boards of Education - Teresa Stinson

                                                                                       6
02.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes
Trustee Lefkovitz stated she is the President of the Association of California County
Boards of Education. Therefore, to avoid any potential or perceived conflict of interest,
she will not be participating in this Agenda Item and recused herself. She then left the
room.

SCOE’s Acting General Counsel Elizabeth Linton presented this item.

Motion by Trustee Caigoy, second by Trustee Keefer to adopt Resolution No. 25-01 -
Approving the Board's Membership in the Association of California County Boards of
Education.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy
Recused and Not Present at Vote: Lefkovitz

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Caigoy reported that she advocated for the literacy resolution at the San Juan
Unified School District and stated that this was her school district when she was a
student.

Trustee Fong expressed interest in attending district board meetings to present the
literacy resolution. He also commented about the importance of providing civic
education to students.

SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing Students Marquez stated that she is on
the Community Schools Steering Committee and with the help of other Committee
Members, she created a gift card distribution form proposal which she presented at the
last meeting to help with the process of recruiting students to join the committee. She
also announced that she, and Curriculum Specialist Charley Gilmore, are back in
Community Schools with the Student Advisory. She also expressed concern about the
substance abuse epidemic and interest in bringing rehabilitation programs to our
students, specifically Narcotics Anonymous, and will provide contact information to the
Board when it becomes available.

Trustee Davis expressed appreciation for Superintendent Gordon reaching out to Dr.
Winlock to bring the credential program to SCOE. She stated that she was not aware of
the need and is pleased that SCOE is offering the program. She told the Board that her
grandmother was a “storyteller” in the San Juan Unified School District and talked about
the positive impact her grandmother’s work had on her and others. She said that when
she was a senior at El Camino High School the drama teacher invited her grandmother
to teach the students the art of storytelling, which she did over the course of a day.



                                                                                            7
02.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes
Trustee Davis concluded her report emphasizing the importance of literacy, reading,
teaching, giving your time, and being willing to share your gifts.

Trustee Lefkovitz thanked SCOE staff for facilitating the listening session at Nathaniel
Colley Jr./Sr. High School. She stated that she voted to approve the Board Meeting
schedule at tonight’s meeting with the understanding that two additional meetings will
be considered. She also stated that she is on the Library Board and brought copies of
their annual report to share with her colleagues. Trustee Lefkovitz said that the Library
Board is interested in learning more about the Sacramento READS initiative. She
expressed support of Trustee Keefer's idea he shared at a previous Board meeting
about posting data around literacy and chronic absenteeism so the Board can see it.
She expressed concern around the recent Executive Orders. She asked the
Superintendent to keep the Board informed around these matters. She asked if SCOE
staff has reached out to trans students and LGBTQ students.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano stated concern about the Executive Orders and asked that
the Board be kept informed around these matters.

Trustee Keefer thanked Trustees Caigoy and Lefkovitz and staff for sharing the
importance of literacy with the districts. He also expressed appreciation for the Arts
Program Report. He suggested that SCOE survey the districts to help identify the arts
"deserts" so we could provide art programs there. He thanked Ms. Marquez for
recognizing the students most in need and her desire to provide services to them. He
also stated that every citizen in California should be treated with dignity, care, and
grace, and that we help if we can.

B. Board President

President Brown stated that he is honored to serve as Board President and looks
forward to ensuring all voices are heard.

C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution

A. February Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. February 18, 2025 and March 4, 2025

14. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to adjourn meeting by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Fong.

                                                                                            8
02.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

The meeting was adjourned at 8:56 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,


David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




                                                                       9
02.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes
