                         LOS RIOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
                                   Board Meeting Minutes
                                  Wednesday, August 11, 2021


This board meeting was held via Zoom Conference in accordance with Executive Orders N-25-20,
N-29-20 and N-33-20 issued by California Governor Gavin Newsom on March 12, 17, and 19, 2020.

1. CALL TO ORDER

The board meeting was called to order by President Ortiz at 5:30 p.m.

Present:
   Ms. Deborah Ortiz, President
   Ms. Tami Nelson, Vice President
   Mr. John Knight
   Mr. Robert Jones
   Ms. Pamela Haynes
   Ms. Kelly Wilkerson

   Jenn Galinato, Student Trustee

   Dr. Brian King, Chancellor

Absent:

   Mr. Dustin Johnson

2. ORAL COMMUNICATIONS

The following individuals addressed the Board of Trustees about its recent approval of Resolution
No. 2021-18 implementing a Covid vaccine requirement for students and employees:

   1.   Lisa Nichols
   2.   Teresa Lopez
   3.   Rachel Maxim
   4.   Tony Cartright
   5.   Sabrina Guidi

3. CONSENT CONSIDERATIONS

A motion was made by Trustee Knight, seconded by Trustee Nelson, that the Board of Trustees
approve Consent Consideration items A through K.

Roll Call Vote:
Aye: Haynes, Jones, Knight, Nelson, Ortiz, Wilkerson
 Los Rios Community College District ▪ Board of Trustees Meeting Minutes
 August 11, 2021                                                                              Page 2

No: None
Absent: Johnson
Student Advisory Vote: Aye
Motion carried; 6:0

       A.      Board Meeting Minutes: July 14, 2021

That the Board of Trustees approve the minutes of the meeting held on July 14, 2021.


       B.      Extension of MOU between CRC and the Rex and Margaret Fortune Early College
               High School

That the Board of Trustees approve MOU and authorize the Chancellor or his designee(s) to
execute the extension.

       C.      Los Rios Colleges Foundation – Quarterly Investment Report

That the Board of Trustees receive the Foundation Quarterly Investment Report for the year ended
June 30, 2021.

       D.      District Bank Accounts

That the Board of Trustees affirm the continuing need for the separate bank accounts used by the
District listed in the August board agenda packet.

       E.      Special Event Authorization

That the Board of Trustees approve or ratify the application listed in the August board agenda
packet.

       F.      Los Rios Child Development Centers: Non-Subsidized Childcare Rates

That the Board of Trustees approve these fees to be in effect July 1, 2021 to comply with out of state
contract for families that will start attending the programs on August 23, 2021.

       G.      Los Rios Child Development Centers: Reopening Plan

That the Board of Trustees approve the Child Development Centers reopening plan.
 Los Rios Community College District ▪ Board of Trustees Meeting Minutes
 August 11, 2021                                                                                        Page 3

        H.      Ratify: Bid Transactions

That the Board of Trustees ratify and/or approve the bid transactions as herein listed.

                                                 CHANGE ORDERS
                 Change            Change                                                        New Contract
   Bid №                                                              Vendor
                 Amount            Number                                                            Total
   20016     $8,231.30                1                 JNT Building and Remodeling Inc.             $300,230.18
   20019     $84,349.00                2                       DW Granade Inc.                      $4,196,887.00


                                                  BID AWARDS
                                              № of           Award          Successful
  Bid №            Description              Responses         Date           Vendor             Total Contract
 C22002     Mohr Hall                           2           7/12/21        TNT Industrial       $134,507.00
            Compressed Air &                                                Contractors
            Vacuum                                                              Inc.
            Contractor Name                             Base Bid              Total Bid
TNT Industrial Contractors Inc                              $134,507.00             $134,507.00
F&H Construction                                           $153,480.00             $153,480.00


        I.      Ratify: Affiliation and Other Agreements

That the Board of Trustees ratify and/or approve the agreements identified.

ALLIED HEALTH AGREEMENTS FOR CLINICAL PLACEMENTS/ INTERNSHIP AGREEMENTS

        Listed below are Allied Health Agreements for clinical placements and
        Internships for Los Rios students. Pursuant to the agreements, the District
        is obligated to cooperate andprovide educational services. The agreements
        do not require payment or receipt of funds.
           Agency                    Clinical Program             Campus         Contract Date        Term
 Walton Pediatrics               Nursing                         ARC           06/23/2021          Evergreen
 CVS Pharmacy                    Pharm Tech                      CRC           06/30/2021          Evergreen

        J.      Purchase Orders, Warrants, Checks and Electronic Transfers

That the Board of Trustees approve the numbered purchase orders, warrants, checks and electronic
transfers that are reflected on the schedule below.

                                             PURCHASE ORDERS
 General Fund                                            0001115242-0001116918             $ 60,239,791.60
                                                         B220000-B220371
 Capital Outlay Fund                                     0003018853-0003018871
 Child Development Fund                                  000600937-0006000938
 Self-Insurance Fund                                     0009000469-0009000473
                                                         B9400000-B9400000
                                                  WARRANTS
Los Rios Community College District ▪ Board of Trustees Meeting Minutes
August 11, 2021                                                                            Page 4

General Fund                                 816298-817042                 $    9,432,761.06
General Fund-ARC Instructional Related       011028-011037
General Fund–CRC Instructional Related       -
General Fund–FLC Instructional Related       031756-031756
General Fund–SCC Instructional Related       048473-048484
Capital Outlay Fund                          835299-835353
Student Financial Aid Fund                   -
Child Development Fund                       954899-954902
Self-Insurance Fund                          976674-976675
ODSFD                                        -
Payroll Warrants                             496781-497114                 $    4,722,569.11
Payroll Vendor Warrants                      68595-68671
June Leave Process                           497115-498983
                                           CHECKS
Financial Aid Disbursements (E-trans)        -                             $    2,985,284.62
Clearing Checks                              -                             $    -
Parking Checks                               -                             $    -
Bookstore Fund – ARC                         -                             $    -
Bookstore Fund – CRC                         -
Bookstore Fund – FLC                         -
Bookstore Fund – SCC                         -
Student Clubs Agency Fund – ARC              6281-6287                     $ 10,587.20
Student Clubs Agency Fund – CRC              5549-5550
Student Clubs Agency Fund – FLC              2945-2946
Student Clubs Agency Fund – SCC              4596-4597
Foundation – ARC                             6943-6946                     $ 83,846.68
Foundation – CRC                             2960-2960
Foundation – FLC                             2098-2103
Foundation – SCC                             5711-5720
Foundation – DO                              1276-1509
Associated Students Trust Fund – ARC         -                             $-
Associated Students Trust Fund – CRC         -
Associated Students Trust Fund – FLC         -
Associated Students Trust Fund – SCC         -
Regional Performing Arts Center Fund         USI Check System: 8241-8246   $ 60,528.85

                                         ELECTRONIC
                                         TRANSFERS
Board of Equalization                        -                             $-
PARS                                         -                             $ 22,970.85
Vendors                                      -                             $ -
International Wire                           -                             $ -
Backup Withholding                           -                             $ -
Retiree Health Trust                         -                             $ -
Self-Insurance                               -                             $ 35,112.02
Bookstore                                    -                             $ -
Payroll Direct Deposit Advices               1106841-1110340               $ 12,242,281.21
Other Payroll Transactions                   -                             $ 2,860.00
Foundation Scholarships                      -                             $ -
ACH Transaction                              -                             $ -
CARES Act/HEERF II                           -                             $ 4,200.00
Regional Transit (RT) Payment                -                             $ -
Accounts Payable Wire                        -                             $ -
CalWORKs                                     -                             $ -
SB85                                         -                             $ 61,000.00
 Los Rios Community College District ▪ Board of Trustees Meeting Minutes
 August 11, 2021                                                                         Page 5

       K.     Human Resources Transactions

That the Board of Trustees approve the human resources transactions listed in the August board
agenda packet.

4. COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (ACTION)

       A.     LRCEA Collective Bargaining Agreement 2021-2024 Public Disclosure and
              Approval

A motion was made by Trustee Haynes, seconded by Trustee Knight, that the Board of Trustees
accept the disclosure information and approve the contract agreement with the Los Rios Classified
Employees Association for the period of July 1, 2021-June 30, 2024

Roll Call Vote:
Aye: Haynes, Jones, Knight, Nelson, Ortiz, Wilkerson
No: None
Absent: Johnson
Student Advisory Vote: Aye
Motion carried; 6:0

       B.     SEIU 2021 Collective Bargaining Agreement 2021-2024 Public Disclosure and
              Approval

This item will be brought back to the Board of Trustees at the September 8 board meeting.

5. ACTION

       A.     Pay Rate Schedules: Final 2020-2021

A motion was made by Trustee Haynes, seconded by Trustee Nelson, that the Board of Trustees
adopt and approve the attached final salary schedules for all groups and individuals providing a
6% one-time salary schedule improvement. It is also recommended that the Board of Trustees ratify
the Memorandums of Understanding outlined in the August board agenda packet.

Roll Call Vote:
Aye: Haynes, Jones, Knight, Nelson, Ortiz, Wilkerson
No: None
Absent: Johnson
Student Advisory Vote: Aye
Motion carried; 6:0
 Los Rios Community College District ▪ Board of Trustees Meeting Minutes
 August 11, 2021                                                                         Page 6

       B.     Pay Rate Schedules: Interim 2021-22

A motion was made by Trustee Knight, seconded by Trustee Haynes, that the Board of Trustees
adopt and approve the 2021-22 interim salary schedules for all groups and individuals listed in
the August board agenda packet.

Roll Call Vote:
Aye: Haynes, Jones, Knight, Nelson, Ortiz, Wilkerson
No: None
Absent: Johnson
Student Advisory Vote: Aye
Motion carried; 6:0

       C.     Public Hearing: College and Careers Access Pathways (CCAP) Memorandum of
              Understanding: Davis Joint Unified School District

Public Hearing: President Ortiz declared a public hearing to receive comments on the College and
Career Access Pathways (CCAP) Memorandum of Understanding: Davis Joint Unified School
District.

A motion was made by Trustee Wilkerson, seconded by Trustee Haynes, that the Board of Trustees
adopt the proposed CCAP MOU between LRCCD/SCC and DJUSD and authorize Chancellor or
his designee(s) to execute the MOU and any future augmentations, amendments, renewals,
extension, or other modifications to the MOU.

Roll Call Vote:
Aye: Haynes, Jones, Knight, Nelson, Ortiz, Wilkerson
No: None
Absent: Johnson
Student Advisory Vote: Aye
Motion carried; 6:0

6. BOARD MEMBER REPORTS

Board Vice President Tami Nelson wished everyone a smooth start to the Fall semester.

7. FUTURE AGENDA ITEMS

Trustee Haynes requested follow-up reports on AB705 transfer-level courses and Dual
Enrollment.

8. REPORTS AND COMMENTS

The following constituency representatives presented reports to the Board:
        Kristin Farlow, American River College Classified Senate
 Los Rios Community College District ▪ Board of Trustees Meeting Minutes
 August 11, 2021                                                                           Page 7

       Julie Oliver, President, Districtwide Academic Senate
       Jason Newman, President, LRCFT

Chancellor’s Report:

ARC: Thanks to the tireless and innovative leadership and direction of Music Professor Dr. Art
LaPierre, ARC's Vocal Jazz Ensembles both won international honors in the 44th annual Downbeat
magazine competition, earning the college its 20th and 21st Downbeat awards! Overcoming the
disruption of moving instruction to online, ARC Vocal Jazz II won the National Student Music
Achievement Competition and ARC Vocal Jazz I won Outstanding Performance merit for their
recording submission in the Asynchronous Community College Small Vocal Ensemble Category.
In addition, the Ensembles have been selected to perform at the prestigious American Choral
Directors Association Western Region Conference in March 2022.

CRC: CRC’s Fire Intern Academy class of 2019-20 was finally able to graduate at their academy
grounds in Elk Grove earlier this month. Although the class started with 20 students, only 12
finished, but those who did persevered through the major obstacles, including the pandemic.
Supporters from the Cosumnes Fire Department, where some of these graduates will end up
working, showed their support by coming out to the grounds to congratulate each graduate.
Fifteen students graduated from CRC’s Diagnostic Medical Technology program last week. They
were recognized for completing a vigorous program, and the additional challenge of completing
during a pandemic. Each graduate was presented with a certificate, a DMS patch and a pin. This
is the program’s 4th cohort to graduate.

FLC: Intel is partnering with Folsom Lake College to grow its Artificial Intelligence (AI) for
Workforce Program. This national program expansion, which includes a total of 18 community
colleges across 11 states, will train tens of thousands of students, putting them on track for
careers in high-tech, healthcare, automotive, industrial, and aerospace fields. The program’s
objective is to provide access and opportunities to students from all backgrounds who may be
interested in these fields, helping to diversify AI, while offering the hands-on technical skills
needed for the current and future job market. FLC is the only community college in the
Sacramento region to be part of the expanded AI for Workforce Program. The college will offer
its first AI course this fall.

SCC: Sacramento City College’s ASHE Center today (8/11) hosted “Welcome Black @ City,” a fall
semester kickoff event for our Black student community. The event aims to help students feel
connected and know they have support as they work toward achieving their goals. Event
highlights include meeting their success team, learning about campus resources, as well as fun
games, swag and music by DJ Remme.

Retirements:

                                     Retirement                                   Years of Service
Kathryn Morgan-Nance      Accounting Professor                            CRC            7+
Brian Mom                 Business Professor                              SCC            7+
Barbara Toupadakis        English as a Second Language (ESL) Professor    SCC           15+
 Los Rios Community College District ▪ Board of Trustees Meeting Minutes
 August 11, 2021                                                             Page 8

Vladimir Chekmarev               Custodian                           SCC   17+
Paula Nobriga                    Interpreter/Transliterater III      ARC    23
Catherine Phillips               Financial Aid Officer               SCC   25+

9. ADJOURNMENT

President Ortiz adjourned the meeting at 6:44 pm.




BRIAN KING
Chancellor and Secretary to the Board of Trustees
Minutes approved by the Board of Trustees: September 8, 2021
