Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda ***REVISED***
Tuesday, October 7, 2025

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Corona Sabeniano called the regular meeting to order at 5:04 p.m. Other
Board members present: Harold Fong, Paul Keefer, Bina Lefkovitz, Alfred Brown,
Heather Davis (via Zoom), and Vanessa Caigoy.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board,
Teresa Stinson, General Counsel, and Wende Watson, Executive Assistant.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Keefer led the Pledge of Allegiance.

E. Land Acknowledgement

President Corona Sabeniano read a Land Acknowledgement.

President Corona Sabeniano asked if there were any public comments before
convening to the closed session. There were no public comments.

Consistent with the notice of Closed Session included on the Board meeting Agenda,
President Corona Sabeniano announced: we will now recess the regular meeting at
5:06 p.m. and the Board will convene in Closed Session under Government Code
Section 54957(b)(1), Personnel, Superintendent's Employment Contract.

Regular Session closed at 5:06 p.m.
Closed Session convened at 5:09 p.m.
Closed Session recessed at 7:20 p.m.
Reconvened Regular Session opened at 7:24 p.m.

President Corona Sabeniano reported that the Board did not take any action in Closed
Session.

In addition to those present earlier, the following individuals were present when the




10.07.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          1
Board reconvened for Open Session: Dr. Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent;
Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer, Assistant Superintendents Michael Kast,
Jacqueline White, and Navdeep Purewal; Executive Directors Xanthi Soriano, Shanine
Coats (via Zoom), and Jerry Jones. Youth County Board Member Nairobi Dunbar was
also present at this time.

2. New Business

A. Ratification of Amendment to Superintendent's Employment Contract

Before action to amend the Superintendent’s employment contract, President Corona
Sabeniano announced: For transparency purposes, under the provisions of the
Superintendent's existing employment contract with the Board and consistent with
longstanding practice, the Superintendent has received the same salary adjustments as
SCOE bargaining units and managers, which is 2% for the 2025-2026 school year. The
Superintendent’s Amended employment contract includes this 2% salary adjustment for
2025-2026. The Amended Contract also provides that on July 1, 2026, the
Superintendent will receive a cost-of-living adjustment based on the Department of
Industrial relations most recently published annual consumer price index.

Motion to ratify the Superintendent’s Amended Employment Contract by Trustee Brown,
second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

3. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

There were no public comments.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no presentations by employee organizations.

4. Approval of Minutes

A. ***REVISED*** Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of August 12,
2025

Motion to approve by Trustee Caigoy, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy




10.07.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        2
   5. Adoption of Agenda

   A. Adoption of Agenda

   Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented by Trustee Fong, second by
   Trustee Davis.

   Final Resolution: Motion Carried
   Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

   6. Official Correspondence

   A. There was no official correspondence.

   7. Partner Update

   A. Supporting Justice Involved Youth/Dennis Dulay - Jacqueline White

   Assistant Superintendent Jackie White introduced the partner update from
   Commissioner Dennis Dulay, Chair of the Juvenile Justice Commission.

   8. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

   SCOE teams have continued to advance family and community engagement at multiple
   literacy events, including books for children at the Natomas Farmers Market Literacy
   Corner, partnering with Shingle Springs TANF during their Back-to-School Night and
   sharing resources with Native American and Alaska Native families; and presenting
   Sacramento County READS to the Sacramento Public Library Board; as well as
   participating in the Sacramento Literacy Festival at the Oak Park Farmers Market.
   Thank you President Corona Sabeniano for speaking to the community on behalf of
   SCOE at the Literacy Festival on September 27. And thank you to Trustees Caigoy and
   Lefkovitz for your support at various events.

   On the policy front, three important education bills have been enrolled and sent to the
   Governor. He has until October 13, 2025 to sign or veto each piece of legislation. AB
   1454, authored by Assemblymembers Luz Rivas, Al Muratsuchi, and Blanca Rubio,
   strengthens literacy by requiring new state-adopted K–8 ELA and ELD materials and
   improved training for teachers and administrators. If signed, it will help ensure all
   students receive high-quality, evidence-based reading instruction.

   AB 1064, authored by Assemblymember Rebecca Bauer-Kahan and termed the LEAD
   for Kids Act, establishes a standards board to oversee AI products used by children,
   requiring risk assessments and banning harmful features. If signed, the new law would
   add protections for students as AI becomes more common in education.



   10.07.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            3
SB 414, authored by Senator Angelique Ashby, expands charter school oversight with
stronger audit requirements, authority to adjust funding in cases of abuse, and new
grant funding for authorizers. If signed, it aims to promote accountability and safeguard
public resources in charter schools.

At our SCOE schools, Palmiter's Culinary Café opened for business on October 3, 2025
with a wonderful menu. Thank you, Trustees Brown, Caigoy, Lefkovitz, and Youth
County Board Member Dunbar for attending, representing our Board, and showing your
support.

On October 4, 2025, SCOE recognized both our 2025 Sacramento County Classified
School Employees of the Year (CSEY) and our 2026 Teachers of the Year (TOY) during
the FC Republic special tournament match. A tailgate reception was followed by the on-
field recognition, and an exciting match. Thank you, Youth County Board Member
Dunbar for taking part in this fun recognition event.

Our Career Pipeline program hosts SCOE’s inaugural Peer to Peer Conference on
October 15, 2025 at Sacramento State University’s Alumni Center. The conference is for
students, school, and district leaders who are interested in developing or sustaining
their Peer-to-Peer Mentorship work. We’re happy to report that the conference is sold
out. Thank you, Trustee Lefkovitz for signing up early to attend and other Board
members are also welcome.

The Sacramento Community Based Coalition (SCBC), in partnership with the California
Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (CDCR), will host the 2025 Reentry
Resource Fair on October 21, 2025 at the SCBC campus which is located at 10170
Missile Way in Mather. This annual event brings together more than 80 agencies to
provide resources and supportive services for justice-impacted individuals.

SCOE celebrates all school administrators, including our management staff during the
Week of the School Administrator from October 12 through October 18. Please be sure
to thank our team of administrators for their leadership.

Sacramento State’s College of Education named Christine Anderson, Curriculum
Specialist on our English Language Arts and K-12 Curriculum and Instruction team, as
its 2025 County Office of Education Partner of the Year. Christine’s work exemplifies the
impact of strong partnerships. She will be honored at Sacramento State’s invitation-only
Stronger Together Award Reception.

Tawny Reinhardt, SCOE’s EdTech Coordinator, was selected for the statewide CITE,
California IT in Education, Educational Leader Award. SCOE received a Champion
Award from Improve Your Tomorrow at its Mental Health and Wellness Summit last
month. SCOE was recognized for our leadership in expanding access to youth mental
health services. Our new director for School Based Mental Health and Wellness, Tabitha
Thompson, accepted the award on behalf of SCOE.




10.07.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                              4
Our workforce development initiative, Career Pipeline, led by Shanine Coats, has been
officially named a 2025 Golden Bell Award winner by the California School Boards
Association. We all look forward to accepting the award at the CSBA Annual Education
Conference in December, which will be held here at the Sacramento Convention Center.

Last Tuesday, the California County Superintendents honored SCOE with a Leadership
Award as the 2025 Large County Office of the Year. This award recognizes our impact
on more than 235,000 students across Sacramento County and the State, and
highlights SCOE’s leadership in collaboration, convening, and technical assistance.
SCOE is truly honored by this recognition, and he wants to thank and commend staff for
their outstanding efforts that make these successes possible.

B. Recognition of the November 2025 Employees of the Month - Xanthi Soriano

Elke Uno, Registrar for Elinor Lincoln Hickey Jr./Sr. High School, was recognized and
honored as the SCOE Classified Employee of the Month for November 2025.

Francisco Marroquin, Teacher for SCOE’s CARE based out of Katherine Johnson
Middle School in the San Jan Unified School District, was recognized and honored as
the SCOE Certificated Employee of the Month for November 2025.

9. Board Report

A. Board Report - Adult Re-Entry - Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendent Michael Kast introduced Christ Fee, Director of Reentry
Programs, who presented the Adult Reentry Board Report. Brian Passenheim Chief
Probation Officer, Placer County Probation Department was also present to talk about
their partnership with SCOE.

10. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White/
Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendent White announced that 13 students are scheduled to graduate
from each of their respective schools and they have completed all requirements for high



10.07.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          5
school graduation including four candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School,
one candidate from Cordova Lane Senior Extension, one candidate from El Centro
Jr./Sr. High School, two candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension, and
five candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

11. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

12. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget -
David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

A. College Initiative Grant - Navdeep Purewal

B. Expanding Access to Education for Students Experiencing Homelessness Grant -
Navdeep Purewal

C. Expanded Learning Grants - Navdeep Purewal
Motion to approve.

D. ***REVISED*** 21st Century California School Leadership Academy Contract -
Shanine Coats

13. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Member Suggestions on Future Agenda Items ("Idea Log")

Trustee Lefkovitz requested that the Board Calendar be placed on the October 21, 2025
Board agenda.

Trustee Brown, Board Liaison to the Personnel Commission, read a letter he wrote to
the Commission stating concern about Commissioner Lee Miller’s refusal to reappoint
Dr. Natalie Woods to the SCOE Personnel Commission. He emphasized the
Commission’s critical role in ensuring fair classification and merit-based employment



10.07.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           6
practices for Classified staff. Despite Dr. Woods’ strong qualifications, impartial service,
and decades of educational leadership, Commissioner Miller opposed her
reappointment solely because she is a former SCOE employee. Dr. Brown stated that
this position is both legally unfounded and contrary to the principles of merit and fitness
that guide the Commission’s work. Excluding former SCOE employees, the letter
concludes, would harm the Commission by eliminating well-informed and experienced
candidates.

B. Board Members

Trustee Davis - no report.

Trustee Caigoy asked about the steps and process for sending letters with all the Board
Member names. She also thanked staff for their service to the community at recent
literacy events and that she enjoyed attending the opening at the Culinary Cafe.

Trustee Lefkovitz stated that she enjoyed attending the recent literacy events and the
Culinary Café opening. She also thanked Member Dunbar and Veronica Ruiz for
attending the ACCBE networking event and looks forward to Trustees Caigoy and Fong
attending Thursday’s event for which they have registered.

Trustee Keefer - no report.

Youth County Board Member Dunbar - no report.

Trustee Fong asked if past employees have served on previous Personnel
Commissions. (Dr. Herota stated that past employees have served on the Commission.)
Trustee Fong stated that he has seen and heard ads on TV and radio for Literacy Rates
in our county and appreciates that it is being highlighted that many students are not
reading at 3rd grade level.

C. Board President

President Corona Sabeniano handed out the committee assignments for 2025-2026.

D. Committees

14. Items for Distribution

A. October Events and Site Visits

15. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. October 21, 2025 Regular Board Meeting at 6:30 p.m.

B. November 18, 2025 Regular Board Meeting at 6:30 p.m.



10.07.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             7
16. Adjournment

A. Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

The meeting was adjourned at 9:08 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,



David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




10.07.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                8
