                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (91 6) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A . HOUSE
   Fire Chief                       ADOPTED
                    ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING
                                   BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                         SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                Thursday, September 14, 2023
                                Held at the following locations:
                            10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                       Mather, California
                                                &
                                      Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm by President Clark. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Saylors, Sheetz, Webber and Wood. Board members absent: Goold, Jones and
  Rice. Staff present: Chief House, and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  Public comments were received .

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by
  members present to adopt the consent calendar as follows :

  1.       Action Summary Minutes
           Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
           Board Meetings of July 13, 2023 and July 27, 2023.
           Action: Approved the Action Summary Minutes
  2.       Revision of Board Policy - Policy 01.010.03 - Purchasing and Contracting Policy
           Recommendation: Approve the Purchasing and Contracting Policy revisions.
           Action : Approved the Purchasing and Contracting Policy revisions.

  3.       Disclosure of Material Expenditure - Facilities Service Truck
           Recommendation: Receive and file.
           Action: Received and filed .

  4.       Disclosure of Material Expenditure - Fleet Service Truck
           Recommendation: Receive and file .
           Action: Received and filed.
5.     Adopt Resolution - Sale of Real Property - 4411 Niobe Circle, Rancho Cordova
       Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution authorizing the Fire Chief of his
       designee to affect the sale of the Property to the preferred offeror ($589,000) or
       next preferred offeror in such instance that the first preferred offeror cancels the
       contract.
       Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-046 authorizing the Fire Chief of his
       designee to affect the sale of the Property to the preferred offeror ($589,000) or
       next preferred offeror in such instance that the first preferred offeror cancels the
       contract.

6.     Adopt Resolution Approving the Fiscal Year 2023/24 Gann Appropriations Limit
       Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution approving the Gann Appropriations
       Limit in Fiscal Year 2023/24 in the amount of $438,075,319.
       Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-047 approving the Gann Appropriations
       Limit in Fiscal Year 2023/24 in the amount of $438,075,319.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.     Service Delivery Update
       (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
       Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.
       Action: Presentation received .

2.    Financial Planning and Budget Policy - Administrative Policy 02.021.01
      (CFO Dave O'Too/e)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.
      Action: Presentation received.

ACTION ITEMS

1.    Adopt Resolution Approving the Fiscal Year 2023/24 - 2027/28 Capital
      Improvement Program (CIP) Plan
      (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
      Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution approving the revised FY 2023/2024 -
      2027/2028 Capital Improvement Program Plan.
      Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by
      members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-048 adopting the revised FY 2023/2024
      - 2027/2028 Capital Improvement Program Plan.

2.    Adopt Resolutions Adopting the Fiscal Year 2023/24 Final Budget
      (CFO Dave O'Too/e)
      A.   Resolution - 2023/24 Final Budget for the General Operating Fund 212A
      B.   Resolution - 2023/24 Final Budget for the Capital Facilities Fund 2120
      C.   Resolution - 2023/24 Final Budget for the Pension Obligation Bond Fund 212E
      D.   Resolution - 2023/24 Final Budget for the Grants Fund 212G
      E.   Resolution - 2023/24 Final Budget for the Development Impact Fees Fund 2121
      F.   Resolution - 2023/24 Final Budget for the Leased Properties Fund 212L
9.14.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 2 of 12
       G.     Resolution - 2023/24 Final Budget for the IGT Fund 212M
       H.     Resolution - 2023/24 Final Budget for the Special Projects Fund 212S

       Recommendation: Receive presentation and Adopt the Fiscal Year 2023/24 Budget
       Resolutions.
       Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by roll
       call vote of members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-049, adopting the 2023/24 Final
       Budget for the General Operating Fund 212A.

       Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by roll
       call vote of members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-050, adopting the 2023/24 Final
       Budget for the Capital Facilities Fund 212D.
       Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by roll
       call vote of members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-051, adopting the 2023/24 Final
       Budget for the Pension Obligation Bond Fund 212E.
       Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by roll
       call vote of members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-052, adopting the 2023/24 Final
       Budget for the Grants Fund 212G.
       Action: Moved by Director Costa, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by roll
       call vote of members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-053, adopting the 2023/24 Final
       Budget for the Development Impact Fees Fund 2121.
       Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by roll
       call vote of members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-054, adopting the 2023/24 Final
       Budget for the Leased Properties Fund 212L.
       Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by roll
       call vote of members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-055, adopting the 2023/24 Final
       Budget for the IGT Fund 212M.
       Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by roll
       call vote of members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-056, adopting the 2023/24 Final
       Budget for the Special Projects Fund 212S.

3.    Bid Award - Power Loader/Gurney Replacement
      (BC Scott Perryman & EMS Captain Jeremy Crawford)
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving a bid award to Stryker for the
      purchase of (30) Power Pro 2 Cots and (38) Power Loaders, utilizing a master
      cooperative purchasing agreement (RFB #2019-05) administered by the Savvik
      Buying Group.
      Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Sheetz, and carried unanimously by
      roll call vote of members present to adopt Resolution 2023-057 approving a bid
      award to Stryker for the purchase of (30) Power Pro 2 Cots and (38) Power Loaders,
      utilizing a master cooperative purchasing agreement (RFB #2019-05) administered by
      the Savvik Buying Group.



9.14.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                 Page 3 of 12
4.     Election of Special District Representative to Sacramento Local Agency
       Formation Commission (LAFCO)
       (Board Clerk Marni Rittburg)
       Recommendation: Cast a vote for a candidate for the Special District Commission
       Seat No. 7 to LAFCo and Authorize the Board Clerk to submit the official ballot with the
       selected candidate and whether they should conduct future election proceedings
       electronically.
       Action: Moved by Director Sheetz, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by
       members present to Cast a vote for Lindsey Carter for the Special District
       Commission Seat No. 7 to LAFCo.
       Action: Moved by Director Sheetz, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously
       by members present to answer Yes to Question 1 - Does the District approve of
       LAFCo distributing electronic ballots to districts that wish to receive them
       electronically in the future?
       Action: Moved by Director Sheetz, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by
       members present to answer Yes to Question 2 - Does the District prefer to receive
       its ballot via e-mail and submit its vote electronically (via fax, email, or scanned
       ballot)?

REPORTS

1.     PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Clark)

       No Report

2.     FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Interim Chief H_averty)

     1. Members
          a. E32 B Shift: Captain Eric Alekman, Engineer Beau Levesque and FF Dylan
             Jensen

              M32: FF/Paramedics Korey Mitchell and Justin Pagluica

             Thank you to Station 32 crews for being proactive and exercising personal
             initiative in getting the station ready for the August 19th Open House. This
             internal team effort saved the District an approximate $40,000, as the District
             did not have to outsource many of the revitalization projects needed to get the
             station ready for the event.

             There was a great turnout at the event. A big thank you to all of the divisions,
             staff and CERT members for their help in putting together a successful event.

     2. New Hires
        Please join me in welcoming Kyle Macdonald who has been hired as a Legislative
        Analyst in the Planning and Development Division effective August 14. Kyle gave a
        brief hello to the board and personal history.
9.14.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 4 of 12
     3. Promotion
        Please join me in congratulating Cynthia Hamilton who has been promoted to
        Administrative Specialist in the EMS Division effective September 5. Cynthia gave a
        brief hello to the board and personal history.

     4. Recruitment
         a. Career Development Opportunities:
             Human Resources is accepting letters of interest from the rank of Captain for a
             Training Day Captain assignment. Final filing date of September 8th , at 4 PM

          b. The District is accepting:
                 i. applications (internal/external) for the position of Paramedic with a final
                    filing date of September 29 by 4 PM and
                ii. applications and letters of interest (internal/external) for the position of
                    Operations Data Analyst in the Operations Division with a final filing date
                    of October 13 by 4 PM.
               iii. letters of Interest (internal) for the position of Administrative Specialist in
                    the CRRD Division with a final filing date of September 15 by 4 PM, and
               iv. letters of interest (internal) from non-probationary Firefighter/Paramedics
                    and Paramedics for the position of MMP Drill Instructor with a final filing
                    date of September 20 by 4 PM. The Drill Instructor position will be
                    assisting Drill Master Fader with the 23-2 Metro Medic Program
                    Academy Class, which is anticipated to start on October 9
                v. letter of interest (internal) for the position of EMS System Technician in
                    the EMS Division with a final filing date of September 27 by 4 PM

     5. Miscellaneous & Meetings
         a. My meetings with the membership (45-day meeting goal) are still
            underway. I have met with the majority of members with approximately
            six meetings remaining. These have gone very well with great feedback. I
            look forward to hearing from the remainder of the membership.

          b. Congratulations to MMP 23-1, "Strength through Sacrifice", on their
             graduation from the academy. The graduation was well-attended , and the
             18 MMPs are excited to start the new chapter of their career with Metro
             Fire.

          c. I have started to meet with our external stakeholders, and have
             participated in several meet-and-greets:
                • Supervisor Desmond
                • Chevon Kothari, Chief Deputy Director, Department of Social
                    Services)
                • Sacramento County executives, electees and staff (County /Metro
                    2x2 meeting)
9.14.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 5 of 12
              The meetings went very well, and we have a shared interest in being
              collaborative partners when discussing matters of mutual interest. I look
              forward to the remainder of meet-and-greets to come in the near future.

              Additionally, Kyle Macdonald and I attended Rancho Cordova Area
              Chamber's Elected Officials Reception. Each year, over 120 community
              and business leaders participate in this event, and this year's event was
              no exception. There was a great turnout, and it provided attendees the
              opportunity to connect with other community leaders and discuss issues
              impacting our community.

          d. 9/11, marked the 22-year anniversary of the terrorist attacks. On that
             fateful day, the world witnessed the bravery and unwavering commitment
             of firefighters who rushed into danger to save lives. It's essential that we
             never forget the events of 9/11, the lives lost, and the lasting impact it has
             had on our profession and our country. I am humbled by the commitment
             we continue to demonstrate as a region in honoring the memories of
             those lost, and am extremely proud of the level of presence and
             participation by Metro Fire members at this year's 9/11 Stair Climb event.

          e. As you should be already aware, retired Assistant Chief Jim Hartley
             passed away on the evening of August 26. Chief Hartley suffered a fall at
             his home on August 14, and had been in ICU since the incident. For
             those of you who did not know Chief Hartley, he retired from Metro Fire in
             January of 2006 after 31 + years of service. The fire service and ability to
             serve has always been his passion. After his retirement from Metro Fire,
             he continued to serve the community by joining the El Dorado Hills FD as
             a board member, a position he held at the time of the incident.

             A huge thank you to our members for assisting with service planning, and
             for providing day-of assistance and a Metro Fire family presence at
             Hartley's service and Celebration of Life. Please keep the Hartley fam·ily
             in your thoughts.
OPERATIONS REPORT (Deputy Chief Adam Mitchell)

1. Fire Captain Tim Rodriguez and AC Josh Bischoff

   •   A big thank you to Captain Scott Lohmeyer, Captain Aaron Wynne, Engineer Maurio
       Martinez, , and Firefighter Tyson Leighton who attended the memorial services for
       CalFire Captain Tim Rodriguez and Assistant Chief Josh Bischof and their families in
       Southern California on Monday August 2P1 and Thursday August 24th . Both members
       were lost in the aviation accident on August 6th . Having our members there to show

9.14.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                Page 6 of 12
       our support to Captain Tim 'T-Rod" Rodriguez's and AC Josh "Bish" Bischof's families,
       Cal Fire, and all of the extended fire service family means a lot to us all. Rest in Peace.
   •   In addition, we want to extend our condolences to contract pilot Tony Sousa's family
       and friends. He was also lost in the aviation accident.

2. FYSM Yoga

   •   Quick thank you to Coach Gallagher for facilitating a new FYSM Yoga program here at
       HQ on Tuesdays and Thursdays from noon to 1pm for all to participate.
   •   The instructor, Eugene, does a great job for those in attendance. I can attest that
       participating will definitely make you feel "alive".

3. Burn Institute
   • Our members responded to a structure fire on Monday, August 21 st . One of our
     firefighters unfortunately suffered a burn injury to their hand.
   • The firefighter was transported to UC Davis for treatment.
   • The firefighter received high quality professional treatment very quickly, and was
      released home to heal. The firefighter is doing well and is back to work effective today.
   • A BIG thank you to the Burn Clinic for their continued high level of care for our
     members when the need arises, and the Firefighter's Pacific Burn Institute (Joe Pick
     this day) who pick up the phone when we call and are there for our members.

4. AMR Return on Investment Update
   A. We entered into a new contract on July 1st , 2023 that added two additional 12-hour
      AMR units into our EMS transport system. An additional duty in the contract was to
      have those units be available for patient consolidation at MSJ when APOT and system
      drawdown became an issue.
   B. Looking at the data for the last two months, we are able to draw a few initial
      conclusions:
                 i. These units are having a positive impact and have been reducing the
                    workload on other units in the system.
                ii. We are covering the cost of the new contract through cost recovery in
                    billing for services.
               iii. We have utilized the patient consolidation plan 6 different times in the
                    past two months that have resulted in 12 units being released back into
                    the system. A vast majority of those units ended up on another call for
                    service during the time their patient was still awaiting a bed at the ED.

   C. We will continue to monitor the data and provide updates as more time passes and
      sample size improves.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT (Chief Development Officer Jeff Frye)

Good Evening Directors. Good to be with you. Just wanted to highlight a couple of items for
your awareness from the Administration branch.


9.14.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 7 of 12
   1. From Human Resources
         1. TPA Contract: HR is still meeting weekly with the new TPA's transition team.
            Go live date is anticipated for November 1st.
         2. Backgrounds: 9 paramedics in backgrounds for October 9th Academy. 23
            FF/Paramedics (15 external/8 internal) in backgrounds for January 16, 2024
            Academy
         3. Recruitments: Paramedic closes 9/29. Subsequent interviews scheduled for
            following three Thursdays. Data Analyst closes on 10/13. Two internal
            recruitments for Admin Specialist and EMS Systems Technician.

   2. From Community Relations
         1. Successful open house at Firehouse 32. An estimated 500 community member
            attended.
         2. Station dedication for Engineer Kyle Rutherford and Captain Mike Guzman on
            September 28th. Announcement with details has been released.
         3. Metro Fire worked with California Special Association (CSDA), in collaboration
            with Sacramento Suburban Water District, to film a virtual tour of Metro Fire and
            Sac Suburban to highlight the need for water infrastructure funding. The video's
            intended target audience is state legislature.

   3. From Finance
         1. Finance Fraud Investigation: Controller Ron Empedrad has initiated a financial
            fraud risk assessment that will involve personnel interviews and examining
            policies used by the Finance, IT, Logistics, Human Resources, and Purchasing
            divisions. Using tools developed by the Government Finance Officers of
            America, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and Association of
            Certified Fraud Examiners, the Controller will be looking for things like
            insufficient physical controls over assets, check tampering schemes,
            purchasing and billing schemes, payroll schemes, fraudulent financial reports,
            and theft of inventory and equipment. This financial fraud assessment was
            discussed with the Finance and Audit Committee in February and the
            Committee requested a report back in the fall. CFO O'Toole anticipates
            completion     and    presentation     to    the   committee     in   October.

   4. From Planning & Development
         1. Standard of Cover: Acknowledge Director Gould's request to get early access.
            We are working toward that goal. We have circulated these chapters to our
            SME gro4p and 522's service delivery team. Thank colleagues for time and
            effort to provide some 250 comments. We will clean up and forward to Directors
            as soon as possible.

          2. Meeting with County Social Services
               1. This is an initiative that came out of our strategic board workshop and
                   several Director comments over the last several months. We have a
                   need to improve communications with our community partners and
                   stakeholders. Two departments within the County's Social Services
                   branch are Health Services, to include Public Health, and Homeless
9.14.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 8 of 12
                       Services & Housing. As we redevelop our community engagement
                       strategy one of my objectives is to establish "peer to peer" relationships.
                       There's plenty of research to suggest these types of connections lead to
                       better collaboration and problem solving. In that regard , we held a meet
                       and greet with Chiefs House and Rudnicki along with Kyle Macdonald
                       and myself. Some of the items we discussed were:
                           1. Board's directive to use data in the decision making process. We
                              asked them to review our data metrics in the risk assessment in
                              the SOC related to MIH and homelessness.
                           2. Better access to alternative funding at State and Federal level for
                              MIH. They have similar challenges and we discussed partnering
                              on these issues moving forward.
                           3. Partnering on legislation to extend and expand the use of MIH to
                              reduce call volume and wall times at hospitals.
                           4. Coordination meeting for 1st due apparatus at Stay Safe sites at
                              Florin and Watt. Both these sites will be operated by third parties
                              and have experience working with local fire departments on these
                              issues.
                           5. Getting info packets to the crews about homeless navigation
                              resources available.

          3. Meeting with Rancho Cordova
               1. Erin Castleberry and I met with Rancho's Community Development
                   Director and Planning Manager to discuss Metro's intent to purchase 3
                   acres in the Grant Line 220 project for a new station and the Zinfandel
                   project. The meeting served as a "pre-pre application meeting". City staff
                   is   always    helpful   and   they    are    good    to    work    with .

   5. End of report.

SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT (Deputy Chief Tyler Wagaman)
Facilities:
   • Station 32 landscape project - special thanks to FF Mitchell for his tractor work and
       Capt. Matteoli for spearheading the project. 15 yards of rock and 80 yards of bark
       delivered. This made for a fantastic background during the station 32 open house last
       weekend.
   • Station 27 AC repair - Aldrey Almeria expeditiously repaired the ac unit in the middle of
       a heatwave.
   • Sheetrock, tape texture paint complete at 101
   • Sheetrock, tape, texture paint, cabinets and counter tops compete at 105
   • Both 101 and 105 should be completed by end of month
Fleet:
   • Squad - new specifications received and are under final review


9.14.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 9 of 12
      •   3 new type I Engines - station 106, 65 and 51 will be receiving new engines.
          Congrats to the citizens on Arden/Arcade, Gold River and Florin.
      •   5 new ambulances - M62, M65, M111, M24 has already gone into service going into
          service tomorrow morning.
      •   Pierce trip - Volterra overview and demonstration
             o Same Velocity and Enforcer platform, but with a smaller engine, added 18"
                 battery space and combination driver motor
             o EMIVT Electro-Mechanical Infinitely Variable Transmission
             o Partnered with Madison WI. (concept), Seattle WA. (call volume) and Gilbert
                 AZ. (heat). Next will Canada (cold)
             o Charging - depends agency needs - three options
                    • Slow 240v 9.6 kW 50amp = 2 days
                    • Medium 480v 3 phase 50kW 100amp = 5 hours
                    • Fast charger= 480v 3 phase 150kW 250amp = 90 mins


             o   Training - EVT Electric Vehicle Technician - three step process
                    • Familiarization class 2 days
                    • High voltage orientation 3 days
                    • High voltage training 3 days
Communications:
       o Collaborating with Sac County DOT on a SMART Cities Grant opportunity to
          trial Cloud Based Emergency Vehicle Preemption in efforts to reduce unit
          response times and create safer intersections for our members.
       o Recently finished the Communications Equipment installs on Six (6) new
          Ambulances. Starting the Communications Equipment install on Three (3) new
          Type I Engines that were recently delivered to Fleet
       o Working with the Facilities Division on Stations 101 & 105 projects to replace
          alerting equipment that was damaged the kitchen fires. Also adding Appliance
          Control Devices at those stations that will automatically shut off the gas stove
          when the station receives an alert.

IT:
             o Increasing our cybersecurity presence
             o Developing more cybersecurity training for all members
             o Installing phase 3 of our fire station access control project at fire stations
               leveraging a SHSGP GRANT

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard for Vice
   President Matt Cole)

Captain Scollard reported there was a great turn out to the memorial 9/11 stair climb. Captain
Scollard stated the total number of FDNY members who have succumbed to post-9/11
illnesses is 342, which is nearly equal to the number of firefighters killed in the Twin Towers
on the day of the attacks. The Fallen Fire Fighter National Memorial in Colorado Springs is
taking place and we have members there now and more will be heading there tomorrow and
9.14.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                          Page 10 of 12
Engineer Kyle Rutherford will be going on the wall. In addition, on October 14, 2023, the
California Firefighters Memorial will be taking place in Sacramento. Engineer Kyle Rutherford
and Retired Captain Jeffrey Vitti's names will be added to the wall this year.

4.     COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
       All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
       10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

       A.      Executive Committee - (President Clark)
               Next Meeting: TBD
                No Report.

       B.      Communications Center JPA - (AC Greene)

       The Communications Center JPA Board met on August 22 for its Regular Board
       meeting and took the following actions:

       •    Approval of FY23/24 planned expenditures for Information Technology related items
            including laptops, IT Back-up Implementation, VHF Simulcast proposal, and PulsePoint
            subscription renewal.

       The Communications Center JPA Board met on September 12 for its Regular
       Board meeting and took the following actions:

       •    Approved renewal of the GIS support block through AXIM for GIS support.
       •    Approved the 2030 Strategic Blueprint and Growth Strategy and adopted Resolution 23-03
            accepting SRFECC's 2023 Strategic Plan.

       The Communications Center JPA Board will meet next on September 26, 2023
       for its regularly scheduled meeting.

       C.      Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
               Next Meeting: September 28, 2023 at 5:00 PM
               All items were approved during our last meeting.

       D.      Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
               9/14/23 Meeting Cancelled; Next Meeting: October 12, 2023

               No Report.

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Costa thanked staff for the fantastic presentations tonight. Thanked Chief House for
the leadership.




9.14.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                        Page 11 of 12
Director Saylors announced this Saturday in downtown Rio Linda will be holding it's Country
Fair. Director Saylors requested that the Board agenize an issue in her area concerning
service delivery and water tender 116 which was brought up by constituent Mr. Glover.

Director Wood thanked Captain Sean Scollard for his report and his comments and the
horrific fact that we have lost 342 firefighters due to and since the events on 9/11. Over the
last 22 they have had to fight to get the treatment they deserve. Look deep into the issues
when you vote to see who is supporting or opposing your brothers and sisters on this issue.

Director Sheetz congratulated the MMP graduates, and employees promoted and for the
great event at Station 32.

President Clark thanked staff for their great reports tonight. He tanked Chief House for his
great leadership.

CLOSED SESSION:

The Board recessed to Closed Session at 8:03 p.m. on the following matter:

1.     PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION § 54956.9 (A) -
       ONE (1) MATTER OF WORKERS COMPENSATION COMPROMISE AND RELEASE
       Roger Ferenc and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
       Claim #4A 1603K1 X0M-0001 - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority -
       Breanna Owen with Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP
       Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Sheetz, and carried unanimously by
       roll call vote of members present to provide authority to its third-party administrator to
       settle the claim.

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

The board reconvened to open session at 8:17 p.m. and General Counsel Lavra reported the
Board provided authority to its third-party administrator to settle the Workers Compensation
claim.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:
https://metrofire.ca.gov/2023-09-14-board-meeting
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:18p.m.             ~

                         -                          ------==
                                                         ·  ~ - -
D'Elman Clark, President                            TedWo,Secretary

1a4~wa?~rk
9.14.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 12 of 12
