       l           I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   \i+;J~               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief


                                 BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                     Thursday, September 14, 2023 – 6:00 PM
                                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                             10545 Armstrong Avenue
D’Elman Clark                              Board Room – Second Floor
Board President
Division 6
                                                 Mather, California
                                                         &
Grant Goold                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Board Vice President
Division 2                                 Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
                                               Passcode: metro2101
Ted Wood
Board Secretary                     Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Division 4                                    Passcode: 838771796 #
Cinthia Saylors        https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFlLQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZV
Board Member                                      QVh4d1VWZz09
Division 1

Robert Webber
Board Member           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 3
                           and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.
Jennifer Sheetz
Board Member
Division 5             The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Brian Rice             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
Board Member           appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
Division 7             Application, please click on the link above.
Gay Jones
Board Member           Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Division 8             reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
John Costa             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
Board Member           advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Division 9             accommodations:

                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                              THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2023


 CALL TO ORDER

 ROLL CALL

 PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District will be cablecast on Metro Cable 14,
the local government affairs channel on Comcast, Consolidated Communications and AT&T U-
Verse cable systems. This meeting is also webcast at metro14live.saccounty.gov. Today’s
meeting replays at 4:00 p.m. on Saturday, September 16, 2023 and 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
September 18, 2023 on Channel 14. This meeting can also be viewed at
youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and encourages
public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public members wishing
to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding officer and identify
themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of time and good order, limit
the number of public member presentations. Speakers’ comments will be limited to three (3)
minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members of
the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be present or
have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                   Page No.

1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                          6
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meetings of July 13, 2023 and July 27, 2023.

2.     Revision of Board Policy – Policy 01.010.03 – Purchasing and                                                   23
       Contracting Policy
       Recommendation: Approve the Purchasing and Contracting Policy
       revisions.

3.     Disclosure of Material Expenditure – Facilities Service Truck                                                  46
       Recommendation: Receive and file.
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                           THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2023


4.   Disclosure of Material Expenditure – Fleet Service Truck                                                      52
     Recommendation: Receive and file.

5.   Adopt Resolution – Sale of Real Property – 4411 Niobe Circle, Rancho                                          58
     Cordova
     Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution authorizing the Fire Chief of his
     designee to affect the sale of the Property to the preferred offeror
     ($589,000) or next preferred offeror in such instance that the first preferred
     offeror cancels the contract.

6.   Adopt Resolution Approving the Fiscal Year 2023/24 Gann Appropriations                                        60
     Limit
     Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution approving the Gann
     Appropriations Limit in Fiscal Year 2023/24 in the amount of
     $438,075,319.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.   Service Delivery Update                                                                                      64
     (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.

2.   Financial Planning and Budget Policy – Administrative Policy 02.021.01                                       73
     (CFO Dave O’Toole)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.

ACTION ITEMS:

1.   Adopt Resolution Approving the Fiscal Year 2023/24 – 2027/28 Capital    86
     Improvement Program (CIP) Plan **         Separate Attachment
     (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
     Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution approving the revised FY 2023/2024 –
     2027/2028 Capital Improvement Program Plan.

2.   Adopt Resolutions Adopting the Fiscal Year 2023/24 Final Budget             103
     (CFO Dave O’Toole) **    Separate Attachment
     A.   Resolution – 2023/24 Final Budget for the General Operating Fund 212A
     B.   Resolution – 2023/24 Final Budget for the Capital Facilities Fund 212D
     C.   Resolution – 2023/24 Final Budget for the Pension Obligation Bond Fund
          212E
     D.   Resolution – 2023/24 Final Budget for the Grants Fund 212G
     E.   Resolution – 2023/24 Final Budget for the Development Impact Fees Fund
          212I
     F.   Resolution – 2023/24 Final Budget for the Leased Properties Fund 212L
     G.   Resolution – 2023/24 Final Budget for the IGT Fund 212M
     H.   Resolution – 2023/24 Final Budget for the Special Projects Fund 212S
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                          THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2023


     Recommendation:            Receive presentation and Adopt the Fiscal Year 2023/24
     Budget Resolutions.

3.   Bid Award – Power Loader/Gurney Replacement                                134
     (BC Scott Perryman & EMS Captain Jeremy Crawford)
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving a bid award to Stryker for the
     purchase of (30) Power Pro 2 Cots and (38) Power Loaders, utilizing a master
     cooperative purchasing agreement (RFB #2019-05) administered by the Savvik
     Buying Group.

4.   Election of Special District Representative to Sacramento Local Agency 143
     Formation Commission (LAFCO)
     (Board Clerk Marni Rittburg)
     Recommendation: Cast a vote for a candidate for the Special District
     Commission Seat No. 7 to LAFCo and Authorize the Board Clerk to submit the
     official ballot with the selected candidate and whether they should conduct future
     election proceedings electronically.

REPORTS:
1.   PRESIDENT’S REPORT — (President Clark)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT — (Chief House)
           OPERATIONS REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
           ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT – (Chief Development Officer Jeff Frye)
           SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT – (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

3.   SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice
     President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

     A.     Executive Committee – (President Clark)
            Next Meeting: TBD

     B.    Communications Center JPA – (AC Greene)
           Next Meeting: September 12, 2023 at 9:00 AM

     C.     Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Wood)
            Next Meeting: September 28, 2023 at 5:00 PM

     D.     Policy Committee – (Director Costa)
            9/14/23 Meeting Cancelled; Next Meeting: October 12, 2023
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                   THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2023


BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter:

1.         PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION § 54956.9 (A)
           – ONE (1) MATTER OF WORKERS COMPENSATION COMPROMISE AND
           RELEASE
           Roger Ferenc and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
           Claim #4A1603K1X0M-0001 – Workers Compensation Settlement Authority –
           Breanna Owen with Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •     Regular Board Meeting – September 28, 2023 at 6:00 PM
     •     Regular Board Meeting – October 12, 2023 at 6:00 PM

Posted on September 11, 2023 by 4:30 p.m.


_____________________________________
Marni Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
**       Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
