Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, June 10, 2025

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

Board President Dr. Al Brown called the regular meeting to order at 6:34 p.m. Other
Board members present were Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Bina Lefkovitz, and Vanessa
Caigoy. SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing Students Judith Marquez was
present (arrived at 6:38 pm). Board members Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, and Heather
Davis were absent.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Dr.
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendents Nicolas Schweizer and Brent Malicote, Assistant Superintendents
Jacqueline “Jackie” White, Michael Kast, and Channa Pitt; Executive Directors Jerry
Jones and Xanthi Soriano; Chief Administrator of Human Resources Darrien Slider-
Johnson, and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Caigoy led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Board President Dr. Brown read a Land Acknowledgement.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

There was a public comment from Nishanth V. with suggestions for fostering a culture of
respect and inclusion of LGTBQ students.

Public comments in support of Miracle University from Jaburi Sherman, Alecia Eugene,
Ashley Sherman, Sharwanna Williams, Juana Castaneda, La’Shay Perry, ZaNiyah
Henderson, and Sami’ya Taylor.

B. Employee Organizations

3. Approval of Minutes




06.10.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         1
A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of April 15, 2025

Motion to approve by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Brown, Caigoy
Absent: Keefer, Fong, Davis

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Adoption of Agenda

Trustee Caigoy made a motion to move Item 10.H. - First Reading of Board Resolution
No. 25-07 to Recognize and Celebrate the Assets and Strengths of Black Students and
to Support an Improved System that Better Serves Black Children and Youth to after
Item 6.A. - Superintendents Report as well as to remove Item 7.B. - Adoption of
Resolution No. 25-10 Resolution Recognizing LGBTQIA+ Pride Month from Consent
Agenda; second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Brown, Caigoy
Absent: Keefer, Fong, Davis

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

On Wednesday, May 21, 2025, SCOE held the first-ever Elementary Civic Recognition
Ceremony at Stone Lake Elementary in Elk Grove. This event honored young students
as civic trailblazers—the first group in the county to receive this award. Through projects
that fostered leadership, service, and action, these students set a powerful example of
what it means to engage in civic life from an early age. Thank you, Trustee Davis for
attending.

On Friday, May 23, 2025, we celebrated the Senior Extension Graduation at the
Scottish Rite Masonic Center. This deeply moving ceremony honored students who
have shown remarkable perseverance and resilience. Guest speaker Dr. Art Pimentel,
President of Folsom Lake College, shared inspiring words with graduates and families.
Thank you to Board President Dr. Brown and Trustee Caigoy for attending and showing
continued support for our students.

On Wednesday, May 28, 2025, Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School hosted a combined 8th



06.10.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           2
Grade Promotion and High School Graduation. Nine 8th grade students and one senior
were honored for their growth, leadership, and career readiness. From culinary arts to
peer tutoring to employment through WorkAbility, these students exemplify the strength
and potential of SCOE’s youth.

That evening, we gathered in the Mather Room for our 2nd Annual SCOE Retirement
Recognition Dinner. This heartfelt celebration honored our retiring colleagues for their
years of service and the lasting impact they’ve made in Sacramento County and
beyond. Of the four who were present to be recognized, their combined years of service
exceeded 100 years. We expressed our deep gratitude and they in turn shared how
much they appreciated the dinner and being honored.

On Friday, May 30, 2025, the entire SCOE team was together, a first since 2019, for the
Employee In-Service and Collaboration Summit, themed as “Sharing Our Stories.”
Throughout the day our shared accomplishments were highlighted across departments
and our commitment to equity, collaboration, and innovation was reinforced. Our
keynote speaker, Retired Police Chief Daniel Hahn, shared his story growing up in
Sacramento as a young bi-racial foster child who fought to survive, be recognized, and
excel as a student—just like many of the youth we serve. He spoke about facing racism
and not fitting into the social norms of that era. His key message to staff was that he
rose from adversity because of the loving and caring adults that surrounded and
supported him every step of the way. We also focused a spotlight on Sacramento
County READS, our literacy initiative grounded in the Science of Reading and shared
information about our Arts Initiative, which is expanding access to arts education
through residencies, public works, and new CTE pathways. Thank you Board President
Dr. Brown for sharing meaningful remarks with our team and thank you to Trustee
Lefkovitz for attending.

On Thursday, June 5, 2025, there were two graduation ceremonies held at El Centro. At
9:00 a.m., we honored a student at El Centro Jr./Sr. High School, who earned two
associate’s degrees through the Lake Tahoe Community College (LTCC) Rising
Scholars program. This student plans to attend CSUS to pursue a degree in sociology
and later study kinesiology. This was the fifth LTCC graduation at El Centro, and a
testament to the power of determination, opportunity, and support from educators and
partners. At 10:00 a.m., we celebrated El Centro students earning their high school
diplomas. Thank you Board President Dr. Brown for attending in support of our
students.

Coming up next, we will proudly support and uplift our LGBTQIA2S+ communities by
participating in the Sacramento PRIDE March and Parade on Sunday, June 15, 2025, at
11:00 a.m., hosted by the Sacramento LGBT Community Center. The march will begin
at the State Capitol and end at the festival entrance.

On Sunday, June 29, 2025, the Sacramento River Cats will host and honor the
Sacramento County Classified School Employees of the Year for 2025. Please arrive by




06.10.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           3
12:00 p.m., so you don’t miss the on-field recognition of the honorees. The game will be
held at Sutter Health Park located in Sacramento.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Corona Sabeniano to adopt the Consent Agenda as presented with
the exception of Item 7.B. - Adoption of Resolution No. 25-10 Resolution Recognizing
LGBTQIA+ Pride Month (which will be presented separately); second by Trustee
Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Brown, Caigoy
Absent: Keefer, Fong, Davis

B. Adoption of Resolution No. 25-10 Resolution Recognizing LGBTQIA+ Pride Month -
   Dr. Nancy Herota

Motion by Trustee Corona Sabeniano to adopt Resolution No. 25-10; second by Trustee
Caigoy.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano moved to amend the motion to adopt Resolution No. 25-10
by adding a requirement to fly the pride flag during the month of June and the last week
of March at SCOE Admin Offices and SCOE schools; second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Failed
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Caigoy
No: Brown
Absent: Keefer, Fong, Davis

A roll call vote was taken on the original motion, made by Trustee Corona Sabeniano
and seconded by Trustee Lefkovitz, to approve the resolution as presented.

Final Resolution: Motion Failed
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Caigoy
No: Brown
Absent: Keefer, Fong, Davis

NOTE: Item 7.B. was removed from the consent agenda for separate discussion.

C. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
   White/Michael Kast




06.10.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         4
Assistant Superintendent Kast announced that 65 students are scheduled to graduate
from each of their respective schools and they have completed all requirements for high
school graduation including 20 candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School,
one candidate from Cordova Lane Senior Extension, 18 candidates from Elinor Lincoln
Hickey Senior Extension; two candidates from North Area Community School, and 24
candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Motion by Trustee Corona Sabeniano to approve contracts, second by Trustee
Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Brown, Caigoy
Absent: Keefer, Fong, Davis

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget -
David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Corona Sabeniano to approve authorization to submit grant
applications/service contracts and accept funding if awarded; and approval of contracts,
positions, and other expenditures associated with the grants as outlined in the proposed
budget, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Brown, Caigoy
Absent: Keefer, Fong, Davis

A. SEEDS of Partnership - Michael Kast

B. Placer County Re-entry Program (PREP) - Michael Kast

C. Early Head Start Grant and Adoption of Resolution No. 25-09 - Dr. Channa Pitt

10. New Business - Other

A. Establish July 15, 2025 as Annual Organizational Meeting - David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Brown, Caigoy
Absent: Keefer, Fong, Davis




06.10.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         5
B. Adoption of Resolution No. 25-08 Resolution to Pay Absent Board Member - David
W. Gordon

Because a quorum of four votes is required and one of the four Board members present
needs to abstain, this item (10.B.) was deferred to a future Board meeting

C. Adoption of Reading Screener for Special Education Programs - Michael Kast

There was a motion to approve the recommended screener, Multitudes, and a second
by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Brown, Caigoy
Absent: Keefer, Fong, Davis

D. NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING on 2025-2026 Proposed Budget - Nicolas Schweizer

The Public Hearing opened at 8:25 p.m.

There were no public comments.

The Public Hearing closed at 8:26 p.m.

Associate Superintendent Schweizer presented the 2025-2026 Proposed Budget.

E. NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING for the 2025-2026 Local Control and Accountability
Plan (LCAP) - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent White and Program Manager Dr. Melissa Neuburger
presented the 2025-2026 Local Control and Accountability Plan report.

The Public Hearing opened at 9:22 p.m.

There were no public comments.

The Public Hearing closed at 9:23 p.m.

F. Board Report - Youth Voice and Leadership - Shanine Coats

The Youth Voice and Leadership report was presented by Director Shanine Coats,
Curriculum Specialist Charley Gilmore, and Assistant Superintendent Jackie White.

Superintendent Gordon announced recent changes in leadership. Superintendent
announced that Veronica Ruiz, Coordinator, Equity, Inclusion & Social Justice, will lead
the youth leadership initiatives.




06.10.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             6
He also announced changes in leadership for the SCOE School of Education, including
the retirement of Dr. Steve Winlock, Executive Director, which will be effective on August
31, 2025. Superintendent Gordon announced that Director Shanine Coats, our Director
of Strategic Initiatives will be appointed as Executive Director of the School of Education
effective September 1, 2025.

G. Year in Review - David W. Gordon

Superintendent Gordon deferred his report to a future meeting.

H. First Reading of Board Resolution No. 25-07 to Recognize and Celebrate the Assets
and Strengths of Black Students and to Support an Improved System that Better Serves
Black Children and Youth - Dr. Channa Pitt

This item was heard after Item 6.A. Superintendents Report.

Assistant Superintendent Dr. Channa Pitt presented the First Reading of Board
Resolution No. 25-07 to Recognize and Celebrate the Assets and Strengths of Black
Students and to Support an Improved System that Better Serves Black Children and
Youth.

The following individuals made public comments regarding Resolution No. 25-07 and
the Black Student Achievement Landscape Analysis Report which was presented at the
May 20, 2025 Board meeting: Sharon Thurmond, John Taylor, and George Harris.

The Board asked questions and made suggestions. Dr. Channa Pitt responded to
questions, engaged in discussion, and received the suggestions.

I. Update to Administrative Rules and Regulations 5117 - Interdistrict Transfer Appeals -
Teresa Stinson

General Counsel Teresa Stinson presented Update to Administrative Rules and
Regulations 5117 - Interdistrict Transfer Appeals. No action was required of the Board.

J. First Reading of Revisions to Board Policy 6158 - Independent Study - Policy
Committee - Teresa Stinson

General Counsel Teresa Stinson presented the First Reading of Revisions to Board
Policy 6158 - Independent Study. No action was required of the Board.

11. Board Member Reports

A. Board Member Suggestions on Future Agenda Items ("Idea Log")

Trustee Corona Sabeniano suggested that Resolution 17-05 in Support of Creating a
Safe and Positive Learning Environment be brought back before the Board to reaffirm



06.10.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            7
our commitment to families and students. Trustee Corona Sabeniano requests a copy of
the report referenced by Dr. Addie Ellis during her public comment, “The Student
Achievement of Black Students.”

Trustee Caigoy requests that the CSBA Membership renewal be brought back to the
Board for consideration. She also requests that the Board Support SB 414.

B. Board Member Reports

Trustee Caigoy expressed disappointment that the motion to approve the adoption of
Resolution No. 25-10 Resolution Recognizing LGBTQIA+ Pride Month failed.

SCOE Appointed Board Member representing Students Judith Marquez stated her
appreciation for her fellow trustees and the opportunity to sit on the dais.

Trustee Lefkovitz expressed disappointment that the motion to approve the adoption of
Resolution No. 25-10 Resolution Recognizing LGBTQIA+ Pride Month failed. She
expressed appreciation for Assistant Superintendent White and Director Coats for their
presentations. Trustee Lefkovitz stated that she attended Fortune’s Black in School
Conference. While attending she was proud of Dr. Pitt’s presentation on the Black
Student Analysis report. She also heard two very inspiring speakers and if it is back in
Sacramento next year she would like to see more SCOE staff and principals attend.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano expressed disappointment that the motion to approve the
adoption of Resolution No. 25-10 Resolution Recognizing LGBTQIA+ Pride Month failed
and that she hopes that activities in support of LGBTQ students continues.

C. Board President Report

Board President Dr. Brown expressed his support of the LGBTQ community.

D. Committees

12. Items for Distribution

A. June Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. June 24, 2025 Closed Session at 4:30 p.m./Regular Board Meeting at 6:30 p.m.

B. July 15, 2025 Regular Board Meeting at 6:30 p.m.

14. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting



06.10.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             8
Motion to adjourn the meeting in memory of SCOE Community Schools Staff Member
Sandra Huit by Trustee Caigoy, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Brown, Caigoy
Absent: Keefer, Fong, Davis

The meeting was adjourned at 10:15 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,



David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




06.10.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                   9
