SACRAMENTO COUNTY BOARD OF EDUCATION

REVISED Resolution Approving Certain Material Revisions to Capital College &
Career Academy Charter School Petition
Resolution No. 25-13

WHEREAS, on August 9, 2022, the Sacramento County Board of Education (Board)
approved the Capital College & Career Academy (CCCA) Charter School to serve
students within Sacramento County.

WHEREAS, CCCA’s approved charter petition states that CCCA will serve 80 9th grade
students in year one (2023-2024), 165 students in its second year of operation, and a
total of 375 students in grades 9-12 by the charter school’s fifth year of operation in
2027-2028.

WHEREAS, based on actual enrollment during its first two years of operation, CCCA
has updated its actual and projected enrollment for the term of its charter and is now
projecting that it will serve 230 students in grades 9-12 in its fifth year of operation in
2027-2028.

WHEREAS, because CCCA’s ongoing low enrollment has directly impacted its financial
condition and solvency, CCCA has not maintained the minimum Reserve for Economic
Uncertainties required by its Memorandum of Understanding, and the Sacramento
County Office of Education (SCOE) has determined that CCCA is at risk of running out
of cash in a few months, on September 3, 2025, CCCA received a notice of concern
from SCOE requesting that CCCA provide a revised budget and cashflow projections
and a detailed plan to decrease expenditures and increase revenues as needed to
remain cash solvent and meet its minimum reserve requirement.

WHEREAS, SCOE has reviewed the revised budget and financial plan submitted by
CCCA on September 12, 2025, and determined that it does not include adequate
documentation to ensure that CCCA can remain financially solvent to continue
operating throughout the 2025-2026 school year.

WHEREAS, CCCA proposes to change the courses in the charter petition from Spanish
language to “World Language;” and to change the Art courses from Building Information
Modeling, Construction Arts, and Construction Technology to Video Game Design and
Arts Media and Entertainment.

WHEREAS, CCCA’s approved charter petition states that students’ coursework will
culminate in an experiential learning project accounting for ten (10) units in the 12th
grade, however, CCCA has established graduation requirements that now include
“Career Experience” prior to the final capstone project, which results in 30 additional
units required for graduation.

WHEREAS, CCCA’s approved charter petition states it will accept applications for
enrollment in 9th or 10th grade, and CCCA seeks to increase the student applicant pool
by accepting applications for the enrollment of students entering the 9th, 10th, or 11th
grade levels.
WHEREAS, pursuant to Education Code section 47607(b), CCCA seeks to update its
charter petition to include new charter school requirements enacted since approval of
the original charter petition.

WHEREAS, CCCA’s Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) requires CCCA to seek a
material revision of its charter when there are changes in enrollment that represent an
increase or decrease from the annual enrollment originally projected in the charter by
more than 25 percent in any grade level or 10 percent of total enrollment in any given
year, a substantial change to the educational program, or a substantial change to the
admission requirements and/or enrollment preferences identified in the Charter.

WHEREAS, CCCA submitted the attached Material Revision Request which specifies
the areas and pages of the charter to be revised to update the actual and projected
enrollment to be served by CCCA by the fifth year of the charter school’s operation,
changes to the course offerings, a change to the grades levels for which students may
apply to enroll, and proposed legal updates to the petition.

WHEREAS, a properly noticed public hearing regarding CCCA’s material revision
request was held on September 16, 2025.

IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED, and good cause appearing:

    1. The recitals set forth above are true and correct.

    2. The Sacramento County Board of Education hereby approves the attached
       material revisions to the Capital College & Career Academy (CCCA) Charter to
       update the actual and projected enrollment for the first five years of the charter
       school’s operation, which relate to changing the course offerings, changing the
       total units for graduation, accepting applications from students entering the 9th,
       10th, or 11th grades, and updating the charter petition in accordance with
       current laws.

    3. CCCA’s request to materially revise the actual and projected enrollment in its
       charter petition shall not be approved unless and until CCCA provides sufficient
       documentation to demonstrate that it can remain financially solvent throughout
       the 2025-2026 school year, notwithstanding its current enrollment. CCCA shall
       provide this documentation within 30 days of adoption of this Resolution.

    4. The Sacramento County Board of Education hereby authorizes the Sacramento
       County Superintendent of Schools or designee to take any other actions needed
       to effectuate the purposes of this Resolution.


PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Sacramento County Board of Education at its regular
Board meeting on the 16th day of September 2025 by the following vote:

        AYES           ______         __________________________________

        NOES           ______         ___________________________________
      ABSENT        ______       ___________________________________

      ABSTAIN       ______       ___________________________________

      RECUSAL       ______       ___________________________________




____________________________________        ____________________________
Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Board President    David W. Gordon, Board Secretary
