NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING - SACRAMENTO COUNTY COMMITTEE ON
SCHOOL DISTRICT ORGANIZATION - Galt Joint Union High School District and
Galt Joint Union Elementary District - REVISED AGENDA

Saturday, June 11, 2022 at 10:00 AM

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Meeting Logistics

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

2. Procedural

A. Call to Order and Roll Call




                                            T
Meeting called to order at 10:00 a.m.

Members present: Members Bina Lefkovitz (via Zoom), Paul Keefer, Harold Fong
                                   AF
(arrived at 10:15 a.m.), Heather Davis, Alfred Brown

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; Jerry Jones, Executive Director; and Wende
Watson, Executive Assistant.
           R
B. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Davis led the Pledge of Allegiance.
          D

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

A. Approval of the Minutes of the County Committee Meetings of December 14, 2021
   and January 11, 2022

Motion to approve the minutes of the County Committee Meetings of December 14,
2021 and January 11, 2022 by Member Davis, second by Member Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Members Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown
Not present at vote: Member Fong
Absent: Members Talamantes, Ahola

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to adopt the agenda by Member Davis, second by Member Brown.



06.11.22 County Committee Meeting Minutes                                          1
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Members Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown
Not present at vote: Member Fong
Absent: Members Talamantes, Ahola

5. Visitor Presentations

A. General Public

No public comments.

6. NEW BUSINESS - Galt Joint Union High School District

A. Public Hearing and Action on Galt Joint Union High School District’s Proposal Under
Education Code Section 5019 to Change Election Methods, Adopt Trustee Areas Map,
and Establish Sequence of Elections; Action on Resolution No. CC-22-02 - Teresa
Stinson




                                            T
The Public Hearing opened at 10:03 a.m.

Galt Joint Union High School District (GJUHSD) Superintendent Lisa Pettis (via Zoom)
                                   AF
introduced the following individuals who supported their district through this process:
Angela Banuelos, Cooperative Strategies and GJUHSD Legal Counsel Roman Munoz.

GJUHSD General Counsel Roman Munoz presented a review of the district’s process to
transition to by trustee area elections, an overview of the community outreach and the
district’s request to approve their proposal to change election methods, adopt trustee
areas map, and establish sequence of elections.
           R

The County Committee asked questions and deliberated.
          D

Acting Chair Keefer asked if there were any public comments. There were no public
comments.

The Public Hearing closed at 10:29 a.m.

Acting Chair Keefer asked if there was a motion to approve or deny the Galt Joint Union
High School District’s proposal?

Member Brown moved to adopt Resolution No. CC-22-02 (with a technical edit to
correct a date) approving the Galt Joint Union High School District's Proposal to Change
to By Trustee Area Elections, Adopt Trustee Areas Map, and Establish Sequence of
Elections.
Second by Member Davis.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Members Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Fong
Absent: Members Talamantes, Ahola



06.11.22 County Committee Meeting Minutes                                                 2
7. NEW BUSINESS - Galt Joint Union Elementary School District

A. Public Hearing and Action on Galt Joint Union Elementary School District’s Proposal
Under Education Code Section 5019 to Change Election Methods, Adopt Trustee Areas
Map, and Establish Sequence of Elections; Action on Resolution No. CC-22-03 - Teresa
Stinson

The Public Hearing opened at 10:36 a.m.

Galt Joint Union Elementary School District (GJUESD) Superintendent Lois Yount
introduced GJUESD Legal Counsel Chris Keiner and Demographer Ken Reynolds from
Schoolworks.

Collectively, Superintendent Yount, Legal Counsel Chris Keiner, and Demographer Ken
Reynold presented the proposal. The goal of the presentation is to review the district’s
process to transition to by trustee area elections, provide an overview of community
outreach, and to request action from the County Committee on School District
Organization.




                                            T
Acting Chair Keefer asked if there were any public comments. There were no public
comments.
                                   AF
This Public Hearing closed at 10:48 p.m.

The County Committee asked questions and deliberated.

Acting Chair Keefer asked if there was a motion to approve or deny the Galt Joint Union
           R
Elementary School District’s proposal?

Motion by Member Davis to adopt Resolution No. CC-22-03 approving the Galt Joint
Union Elementary School District’s Proposal Under Education Code Section 5019 to
          D

Change to By Area Trustee Elections, Adopt Trustee Areas Map, and Establish
Sequence of Elections.
Second by Member Brown
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Members Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Fong
Absent: Members Talamantes, Ahola

8. ADJOURNMENT

Motion by Member Davis to adjourn the meeting, second by Member Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Members Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Fong
Absent: Members Talamantes, Ahola

A. The meeting adjourned at 10:58 a.m.



06.11.22 County Committee Meeting Minutes                                              3
