10/14/21, 8:19 AM                                                BoardDocs® Plus


SACRAMENTO COUNTY BOARD/SUPERINTENDENT STUDY SESSION AT 6:00 P.M.
Tuesday, October 5, 2021 VIA ZOOM/TELECONFERENCE CALL

MINUTES
1. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Talamantes called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. via teleconference call in
Sacramento, California. Board members present were Joanne Ahola, Heather Davis, Harold Fong,
Paul Keefer, Bina Lefkovitz, and Karina Talamantes. Also present were David W. Gordon,
Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; Jerry Jones,
Executive Director; other staff; and Wende Watson, Executive Assistant. Trustee Brown was
absent.
Other staff present via teleconference were Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; Nicolas Schweizer,
Associate Superintendent; Brent Malicote and Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendents; Coleen
Johnson, Chief Administrator; Michael Kast, Channa Cook-Harvey, Kristin Wright, and Rachel Perry,
Executive Directors; Shanine Coats and Tim Herrera, Directors; and Lisa Lasky, Facilitator.
2. Pledge of Allegiance

Mr. Fong led the Pledge of Allegiance.
3. Board/Superintendent Study Session - Facilitated Discussion of Diversity, Equity, and
   Inclusion
Lisa Lasky, National Equity Project, facilitated a discussion on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion.
4. Public Comment

There were no Public Comments.
5. Adjournment

Mr. Keefer moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Lefkovitz seconded the motion, which carried 6 ayes,
0 noes, 1 absent (Brown), 0 abstentions based on the following Roll Call vote:
Ms. Lefkovitz – yes
Mr. Keefer – yes
Mr. Fong – yes
Ms. Davis – yes
Mr. Brown – absent
Ms. Ahola – yes
Ms. Talamantes – yes
The meeting adjourned at 7:48 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board
Date Approved:



https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                       1/1
