Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, March 4, 2025

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Brown called the regular meeting to order at 6:31 p.m.

Other Board members present: Harold Fong (arrived at 6:34 p.m.), Paul Keefer, Bina
Lefkovitz, Vanessa Caigoy, Mariana Corona Sabeniano, and Heather Davis. SCOE
Appointed Board Member Representing Students Judith Marquez was absent.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Dr.
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer, Assistant Superintendents Michael Kast and
Jacqueline “Jackie” White; Executive Directors Xanthi Soriano and Jerry Jones; Director
Shanine Coats, and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Corona Sabeniano led the Pledge of Allegiance. President Brown read a Land
Acknowledgement.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

There were public comments requesting the expansion of Miracle University School
from the following individuals: Latoya Lawson, Juanita Chavez, Mary Carter, Tiara
Hurts, and Ornetter Jones.

There was a public comment from Nathaniel Wilson regarding his employment at
SCOE.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no reports from employee organizations.




03.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        1
3. Approval of Minutes

A. No Minutes

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Adoption of Agenda

There was a motion by Trustee Keefer to adopt the agenda with an amendment to move
Item 11.D. - The Capitol College and Career Academy Annual Report to be presented
after the Superintendent’s Report; second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Youth Report

A. Arts Youth Report - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent Jackie White introduced the Arts Youth Report and SCOE Arts
Coordinator Jasmin Martinez. Two students also presented and described how the Arts
program has positively impacted their lives.

7. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

On February 21-22, SCOE participated in the Black History Month EXPO at Antioch
Progressive Church in Sacramento. Our SCOE Human Resources team was there to
recruit for open positions. SCOE staff attended a youth educational summit for students,
parents, and community members.

On March 3, SCOE hosted a convening at California State University, Sacramento
designed to explore the educational experiences of Black students in Sacramento
County. This event brought together educators, community-based organizations,
students, and parents to foster meaningful conversations about how education systems
can better serve Black students. Participants had the opportunity to share insights,
discuss best practices, and provide input on actionable recommendations for system
improvements. It also emphasized the need to recognize and address barriers that have
historically limited opportunities for Black students. Speakers reinforced the importance
of lifting Black voices, fostering inclusion, and ensuring all students graduate prepared
for their future. A major highlight of the event was a youth panel, facilitated by the RAGE

03.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           2
Project, during which students shared their experiences and insights. As discussions
continue, the next step is implementing recommendations and lifting the efforts already
underway in our schools and communities that will lead to equitable opportunities and
improved outcomes for Black students. Thank you to President Brown, and Trustees
Caigoy and Corona Sabeniano for attending this important convening.

Michelle Herczog, Ed.D., an education consultant (formerly the coordinator of history
and social science for the Los Angeles County Office of Education), and Superintendent
Gordon were selected by California Supreme Court Chief Justice Patricia Guerrero to
receive the Champion of Civics award.

Senator Limón has introduced Senate Bill 584 to again champion civic learning in all
grade levels. SB 584 would require school districts, county offices of education, and
charter schools to implement a Civic Engagement Pathway Program for pupils in grades
1 to 8, inclusive, to increase pupil awareness and civic engagement in democratic
governmental institutions at the local, state, and national levels, and to provide civic
learning resources and support for teachers to implement that programming.

SCOE will host a webinar for parents and community members to provide information
and resources regarding immigration issues related to our schools. The webinar will
feature experts on this important topic.

SCOE’s Prevention and Early Intervention Department, in partnership with the
Sacramento County Opioid Coalition, LC2 Productions, Sacramento County Friday
Night Live/Club Live, and the Sacramento Coalition for Youth will host a free screening
of Fentanyl High on March 14 at The Guild Theater in Sacramento. The event aims to
raise awareness about the opioid crisis by providing a raw and insightful look at
fentanyl’s impact through the eyes of high school students. Following the screening, an
engaging panel discussion will feature experts and community leaders who will share
information on fentanyl dangers, prevention strategies, and available support services.
Additionally, free Naloxone (Narcan), a lifesaving medication used to reverse opioid
overdoses, will be distributed to participants.

On March 15, Craig Irish and his team will be hosting Sacramento County History Day.
The Awards Ceremony is at 3:30 p.m. at CSU Sacramento. This year’s theme is “Rights
and Responsibilities in History.”

Our Parole Re-Entry Program in Yolo County is holding a graduation ceremony on
March 19 at the Community and Senior Center in Woodland.

On April 1, at the Sofia Theater in Sacramento, SCOE is hosting a screening of the
powerful documentary Hopeville: How to Win the Reading Wars. This thought-provoking
film explores the pressing issues surrounding literacy, education, and the efforts to
address the reading challenges that students face today. The screening will be followed
by a discussion with educators, policymakers, and experts who are working to make
lasting change.

03.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            3
B. Recognition of the April Employees of the Month - Xanthi Soriano

Parul Sheth, an Accounting Technician with the Financial Services Department, was
recognized and honored as the April Classified Employee of the Month.

Suzanne White, a Teacher at Sly Park Environmental Education Center, was recognized
and honored as the April Certificated Employee of the Month.

8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Corona
Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. No Diplomas

9. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. No Contracts

10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

There was a motion to approve the Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service
Contracts and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and
Other Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budgets by
Trustee Caigoy, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

A. Title III County Office of Education Regional English Learner Specialist Agreement -
Dr. Channa Pitt

B. Count-Play-Explore Partnership - Dr. Channa Pitt

11. New Business - Other


03.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            4
A. Authorization for Out-of-State Travel for Trustee attending Capitol-to-Capitol
   Conference - David W. Gordon

Trustee Davis made a motion to approve authorization for Out-of-State Travel for
Trustee Caigoy to attend the 2025 Annual Capitol-to-Capitol Conference in Washington,
DC, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Abstain: Caigoy

B. Adoption of State & Local Cybersecurity Grant Program (SLCGP) Resolution No. 25-
02 - Jerry Jones

Trustee Fong made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 25-02 for the State & Local
Cybersecurity Grant Program, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

C. California School Boards Association Delegate Assembly Election Ballot - David W.
Gordon

Motion to approve the votes for candidates Michel Baker (Twin Rivers Unifies School
District), Craig DeLuz (Robla Elementary School District, Annette Kunze (Galt Joint
Union Elementary School District), Kara Lofthouse (Folsom Cordova Unified School
District), and Noel Mora (Natomas Unified School District) for the California School
Boards Association Delegate Assembly Election Ballot by Trustee Caigoy, second by
Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

D. Capital College & Career Academy (CCCA) Annual Report - Dr. Nancy Herota and
Nicolas Schweizer

NOTE: Item 11.D. was heard earlier in the meeting, after Item 7.A. - The
Superintendent’s Report.

Dr. Nancy Herota introduced the Capital College & Career Academy (CCCA) Annual
Report. Consultant Amy Besler, SCOE’s Charter Monitor made a presentation followed
by Associate Superintendent Schweizer presenting the Fiscal Oversight Report and
Deputy Superintendent Dr. Herota presenting the Teacher Credentialing report.

Kevin Dobson, Founder and Executive Director of CCCA, presented CCCA’s annual
report.

03.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         5
Student Coral May shared her positive experience as a CCCA student.

There was a public comment in support of CCCA from CCCA Board Member Neilson
Jncharles, Senior Field Representative, NorCal Carpenters Union.

12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Fong - no report.

Trustee Caigoy thanked Superintendent Gordon and the staff for doing the immigration
webinar in support of our students. She also expressed appreciation for the opportunity
to attend the Black Student Landscape Analysis Listening Session on March 3. She
asked if Board members would have a chance to weigh in on the recommendations that
were drafted and Dr. Pitt said that it would be possible for them to do so. Trustee Caigoy
proceeded to tell a funny story about reading to students during St. Hope PS 7’s Black
History Month program. She also stated that she is looking forward to seeing our staff at
the California Charter Schools Conference next week.

Trustee Davis - no report.

Trustee Keefer thanked the staff for their support of CCCA. He also stated that he went
into El Centro for orientation so he could receive his badge.

Trustee Lefkovitz invited her colleagues to attend the ACCBE First Quarterly Network
virtual meeting on March 17 at 6:00 p.m. The meeting theme is Innovations in Career
Tech. She also announced that the Legislative Committee is meeting virtually on March
25, and she invited others to attend. Trustee Lefkovitz reported that she visited Miracle
University and was moved by the students she met and impressed by the number of
adults supporting the students. She expressed interest in having SCOE consider ways
to partner with them.

Trustee Lefkovitz provided the following report on behalf of SCOE Appointed Student
Board Member Judith Marquez. Ms. Marquez is working with Charley Gilmore and the
Youth Advisory Committee and together they are discussing the issue of substance
abuse. Ms. Marquez is advocating for bringing Narcotics Anonymous group meetings to
school sites to support students who struggle with this issue.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano expressed interest in SCOE looking into Miracle University.
She asked that the upcoming Immigration Webinar cover not only family and student
rights but also provide resources to assist families with identifying a plan if something
should happen and inform staff on things they can and should do if ICE is on campus.
She also expressed an interest in looking at the previously adopted resolution and said
she thinks there are some areas that could be updated to reinforce our commitment to
the safety of students. She stated that she welcomes the opportunity to attend more

03.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                              6
student convenings, such as the one held on March 3 at CSU Sacramento -
Empowering Equity: Understanding & Improving School Experiences of Black Students
in Sac County.

B. Board President

President Brown told a story about how students rely on their parents as role models.
He stated that he is looking forward to attending Cap to Cap this year and expressed
appreciation for his colleagues.

C. Committees

13. Items for Distribution

A. March Events and Site Visits

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. March 18, 2025 and April 4, 2025

15. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to Adjourn Meeting by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

The meeting was adjourned at 9:04 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,



David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




03.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          7
