Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m. REVISED
Tuesday, November 15, 2022

MINUTES - Unapproved

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Other Board members
present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Bina Lefkovitz, Harold Fong, Heather Davis (via
Zoom), Alfred Brown, Joanne Ahola

Also present were Superintendent David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to
the Board; Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota, General Counsel Teresa Stinson,
Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer, Assistant Superintendents Brent Malicote
and Jacqueline White, Executive Directors Xanthi Soriano, Michael Kast, and Jerry
Jones, and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Corona Sabeniano lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Approval of Minutes

A. Motion by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Fong to approve the minutes of the
Regular Board Meeting of October 11, 2022

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown
Abstain: Trustee Ahola

3. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion by Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Davis to approve the adoption of the
agenda as presented.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

4. Official Correspondence
A. There was no official correspondence.
11.15.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                       1
5. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

Sean Frame made a public comment regarding SCOE's Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
efforts.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no requests from employee organizations.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

CIVIC EDUCATION: California Civic Learning Summit
This morning SCOE, in partnership with members of the Judiciary as well as the Los
Angeles County Office of Education, hosted the 3rd Civic Learning Summit. California
Secretary of State Shirley Weber opened the summit with remarks about the importance
of civic education and about the fragility of our democracy. Student civic leadership
groups representing Clovis Unified, Fresno Unified, and Anaheim Union High School
districts shared the work they are doing to support civic learning and activity in their
respective areas. Their voices and action represent students in grades as early as
Kindergarten through 6th grade, middle school, and high school. The panel discussion
was facilitated by the Honorable Justice Judith McConnell and speakers included myself
(Dave Gordon), Dr. Joseph from UC Riverside, Dr. Mafia Poulin (Deputy Superintendent
LACOE), and Joel Snyder (2022 Civic Learning Champion Award Winner). Discussion
included developing civic learning pathways beginning in elementary school, the need
for professional development and the importance of student voice to inform our work
and our collective future. Points were also made on how to further promote and
prioritize civic learning throughout our state. Chief Justice Elect Patricia Guerrero made
remarks at the closing. Thank you Board members Bina Lefkovitz and Mariana Corona
Sabeniano for attending and supporting this important event.

California Community Schools Partnership R-TAC Approval
On November 2, the State Board of Education approved CDE’s recommendations for
the California Community Schools Partnership Program Regional Technical Assistance
Centers. SCOE will co-lead a Community Schools Technical Assistance Center in
collaboration with the Placer County Office of Education. The combined region is one of
eight throughout the state to be approved as “R-TACs” or Regional Technical
Assistance Centers. Please note that the state’s reference to “community schools”
stems from the newly adopted California Community Schools Framework, which now
defines community schools as ANY school serving pre-Kindergarten through high
school students using a “whole-child” approach, with “an integrated focus on
academics, health and social services, youth and community development, and
community engagement.” The new definition does not change the focus of SCOE’s
Community Schools: Elinor Lincoln Hickey, North Area, and Nathaniel S. Colley.
However, it certainly allows for ever greater expansion and an improvement strategy
11.15.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          2
where community school initiatives enable LEAs and SCOE to work closely to
understand and address the unique needs, and aspirations of our students and school
community. For conventional K-12 schools, the community schools initiative encourages
them to redesign their own curricula and programs to support the whole child and
partner with community-based organizations and local government agencies to align
community resources to realize a shared vision for success and to sustain those
partnerships into the future. The goal of the newly defined community schools is the
health and wellbeing of students with the intent to improve student outcomes by
addressing students’ academic, cognitive, physical, mental, and social-emotional needs.
We look forward serving our students throughout our region and help create a
sustainable model for providing students with needed health and wellness services.

FAMILY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT: FACE Annual Summit
On November 3, SCOE hosted nearly 100 district and school team members at our
Family and Community Engagement Annual Summit. During the event everyone gained
a renewed understanding for how important family and community engagement is in
boosting student achievement, improving schools, and ensuring equitable access to
opportunities. Keynote speakers—Hayin Kimner and Michael Serban—led an
interactive session about the “whole child” approach as a school improvement strategy
where a district and their schools can work closely with teachers, students, families, and
community partners. San Juan Unified was featured as the summit’s District Spotlight
for its innovative FACE mobile van, a resource center on wheels, designed to travel
throughout the district to bring families resources and support. Special thanks to Connie
Lee, Kristin Wright, Robin Ryan, Monica Gonzalez-Williams, Malissa Kekahu, Ashley
Hatheway-Moulton, and Sam Tosi for their efforts in coordinating the summit. And,
thank you to President Keefer; Trustees Brown, Lefkovitz, and Corona Sabeniano for
your participation and support for such an important endeavor.

SPECIAL EDUCATION: Inclusive Education and Early Learning
Last month, SCOE Early Learning facilitated visits coordinated by California County
Superintendents for state leaders in education policy. The visits included sites in
Sacramento County: Hillsdale SETA Head Start and Vineland Elementary School.
Representatives from the Department of Finance, State Board of Education, Legislative
Analyst’s Office, State Senate, and State Assembly observed the active classrooms and
outdoor learning spaces and were able to speak with teachers, staff, and parents about
their experiences. We thank our district partners, SCOE staff and leadership, and our
parents and students, for providing such a powerful and inspiring visit.

Palmiter Culinary Café - Grand Opening on October 27, 2022
In October, we celebrated the grand re-opening of the Culinary Café at Leo A. Palmiter.
It had not been open since February of 2020. Principal Lauren Roth and Chef Steven
Hazelton created a fabulous event, menu, and presentation. The Café has been in
operation for 24 years and approximately 30 students are involved this year to get food
service experience and a ServSafe certification, which allows them to get a job working
in a restaurant. On average, about 40 lunch meals are served each week. Last week’s
menu was a Thanksgiving meal.

Our SCOE Teacher of the Year 2023 Kevin Jordan runs a horticulture program and
11.15.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           3
some of the produce served is grown and harvested by students through the horticulture
program called the Urban Oasis Project. The Café is open to the public on specific
dates, by reservation, and meals are $10. Thank you to President Keefer, Trustees
Davis, Lefkovitz, Corona Sabeniano, Ahola, and Brown for attending. The Café is more
than just a place to eat, it’s a legacy for SCOE, the community, and most importantly, a
place where our students can gain life and work skills to succeed and prosper.

COURT AND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS: Upcoming Graduations
Our next El Centro Graduation will take place on December 13, 2022 at the Youth
Detention Facility. Our winter Community School and Senior Extension graduation will
take place December 14, 2022 at the Scottish Rite Masonic Center. We anticipate
another large graduating class! Board members are welcome and can contact Wende
Watson for more information.

DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION WORK: Upcoming Series
Our DEI Team continues to offer professional learning for county and district staff with
four more upcoming sessions:

December 7 is the 5th session of the National Equity Project Learning Series, Managing
and Coaching for Equity.

In January and March of 2023, in partnership with Changing Perspectives, SCOE will
host two sessions on Disability as Diversity: Putting New Perceptions into Practice; and
the Bridge Between Disability and Intersectionality.

On December 2, Retired Sacramento Police Chief Daniel Hahn will present A Way
Forward: Planning a Better Tomorrow Through Knowing History’s Impact on Today.

SCOE’S CAREER PIPELINE: Educational Pathways
Last week, the Learning Policy Institute (LPI) and other state groups hosted a webinar
called, “Building Partnerships to Support High-Quality P-3 Teacher Preparation in
California.” SCOE’s Julie Montali facilitated a panel presentation to highlight the
workforce development plan for UPK whereby SCOE was awarded $3.7 million to
support the early learning workforce in the county.

SOCIAL EMOTIONAL LEARNING (SEL): CalHOPE
SCOE continues to lead a strong network of statewide SEL county leaders through the
CalHOPE Student Support Community of Practice (CoP). The first in-person CalHOPE
CoP was held on September 13, where we were honored to virtually host Dr. Linda
Darling-Hammond as our keynote speaker. In addition to the CalHOPE CoP, we are
also offering additional specialized CoPs with partners at the Greater Good Science
Center and Orange County Office of Education. Regionally, SCOE, in partnership with
the Collaborative for Academic Social and Emotional Learning (CASEL), is hosting 5
SCOE SEL CoP sessions. Each CoP will feature an equity centered SEL construct
(aka, Transformative SEL): Identity, Agency, Belonging, Curiosity, and Collaborative
Problem Solving. Our first CoP on October 27 was attended by 70 in-person
participants and 20 virtual attendees. We thank Trustee Lefkovitz for attending.

EMPLOYEES: Holiday Spirit of Giving
11.15.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             4
Several employees participated in SCOE’s Annual Turkey Drive and over 50 frozen
turkeys were donated. Opportunities to contribute to the United Way and the
Sacramento County Sheriff’s Toy Drive will continue this season. SCOE staff will be
collecting donations to provide meals for students and families in SCOE school
programs. Distributions will take place at Community School locations on December 15.
Board members are welcome and invited to participate in any of our giving programs
and can contact Wende Watson for more information.

B. Recognition of the December 2022 Employees of the Month

Joanna Graves, Program Analyst, was recognized and honored as Classified Employee
of the Month for December.

Danielle Scarson, Nurse, was recognized and honored as Certificated Employee of the
Month for December.

C. SCOE 2023 Teacher of the Year

Xanthi Soriano, Executive Director of Communications, introduced SCOE 2023 Teacher
of the Year, Kevin Jordan.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Motion by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano to adopt the
consent agenda.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

By approval of the consent agenda, the following items were approved:

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
White/Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White provided information to the Board on 7
students scheduled to graduate, including 2 candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr.
High School, 4 candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School, and 1 candidate from
Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension.

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Motion by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Brown to approve contracts.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried


11.15.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         5
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Davis to approve.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

A. Sacramento Community Based Coalition Grant - Jacqueline White

B. Statewide Non-Profit Private School Professional Development (SNPSPD) Grant -
Brent Malicote

C. California Partnership Academies Technical Assistance Grant - Jacqueline White

D. California County Superintendents Arts Initiative Grant - Dr. Nancy Herota

10. New Business - Other

A. 2021-2022 Annual Report of Sacramento County Williams Review - Teresa Stinson

SCOE General Counsel Teresa Stinson presented this item.

B. Revisions to ARR 1312.3 - Uniform Complaint Procedures - Teresa Stinson

SCOE General Counsel Teresa Stinson presented this item.

C. Board Report - Foster Youth and Homeless Services - Brent Malicote

Assistant Superintendent Brent Malicote introduced Director Monica Gonzalez-Williams
and Coordinator Tara Turrentine who presented this report.

D. Board Report - Honoring Diversity through Supporting Inclusive Family and
Community Engagement - Dr. Nancy Herota

Dr. Nancy Herota initiated this presentation and then introduced Director of Strategic
Projects, Connie Lee, to continue the presentation. This presentation included guest
speakers Lucy Bollinger, Program Specialist, and Jenny Smith, Newcomer and Refugee
Coordinator from Elk Grove Unified School District Family and Community Engagement
Department.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas
11.15.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                       6
A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola wished everyone a happy Thanksgiving and encouraged everyone to
enjoy time with their families and friends.

Trustee Brown thanked Superintendent Gordon for the opportunity to attend the dinner
at the MOSAC on November 5. He reported that today he had the opportunity to
participate in National Apprenticeship Awareness Day where he learned about the
training an apprentice goes through to get a job, including working with all kinds of
equipment. There is a new 15,000-acre training facility located off Dillard Road. It is one
of the largest facilities for training in the U.S. It takes 3-4 years to become a journeyman
at which point they can make quite a good salary. He stated that they do not need to go
to college to have a successful career and retirement. He also commented that he had
an opportunity to tour the new Courthouse downtown. Lastly, at our Personnel
Commission meeting, he learned that SCOE is looking to hire a Cyber-Security
Engineer and asked Jerry Jones to share about this position.

Jerry Jones explained that the purpose of the Cyber-Security Engineer position is to
ensure that SCOE has the best systems in place to protect our data against cyber-
attacks.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano stated that she attended a 4-day training English Learner
and Legacy Initiative put on by Californians Together. She commented that she learned
a lot there. One of the highlights was the mention that SCOE was an early adopter of
the Seal of Biliteracy. She stated that she learned that this is National Apprenticeship
Week and she joined Dr. Brown on a couple of tours with building trades and saw some
of the work they are doing with the apprenticeship students.

Trustee Davis reported that she saw Retired Communications Director Tim Herrera at
Costco and he told her that he misses his SCOE colleagues and is enjoying his
grandbaby. She also commented that she was glad to learn from President Keefer
about new volunteer opportunities because her daughter has been looking for
opportunities to serve.

Trustee Fong thanked fellow trustees for the letter of support for Proposition 28 to
increase funding for art and music programs that will benefit students.

Trustee Lefkovitz stated that there was a Curriculum Committee meeting. The meeting
included an update on the strategies that Assistant Superintendent White is exploring,
including additional data diving, increased professional development, youth advisory
group and parent engagement with home visits. She also stated that she enjoyed the
MOSAC event that she attended November 5 with Superintendent Gordon. She
encouraged others to check out the venue and hopes students get a chance to visit.

B. Board President

President Keefer thanked the SCOE staff and commented that he has heard repeatedly
that SCOE is the hub for many great projects, and he attributes that to the work of
11.15.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             7
SCOE staff. He thanked Superintendent Gordon for his lengthy report that highlights
how much SCOE is doing.

C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution

A. November/December Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. December 13, 2022 and January 17, 2023

14. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Brown to adjourn the meeting.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

Meeting adjourned at 8:51 p.m.

Respectfully Submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




11.15.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        8
