                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                                ADOPTED
                  ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                                 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                       SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                Thursday, January 11, 2024
                              Held at the following locations:
                          10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                     Mather, California
                                              &
                                    Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm by President Clark. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold, Rice, Saylors, Webber and Wood. Board members absent: Jones and
  Sheetz. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  Public comments were not received .

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Saylors, and carried unanimously by members present
  to adopt the consent calendar as amended:

  1.      Adopt Resolution - Terry Barnes
          Recommendation: Adopt Resolution honoring Reserve Firefighter Terry Barnes.
          Action: Adopted Resolution.

  PRESENTATION ITEMS

  1.      Year-end Review of Completed Policies in 2023 & What's Coming
          (HR Manager Melisa Maddux)
          Recommendation: Receive Presentation
          Action: Presentation received .

  ACTION ITEMS

  1.      Adopt Resolution - Prequalified Short List - Design Build Entities
          (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
      Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution establishing a prequalified short-list of the
      three highest scoring design-build entities for the Zinfandel Phase 3 Buildout project.

      Action: Moved by Director Wood , seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2024-02 establishing a prequalified short-list of
      the three highest scoring design-build entities for the Zinfandel Phase 3 Buildout
      project.


REPORTS

1.    PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Goold)

      President Goold stated he had a very informative Workers Compensation meeting this
      afternoon before the Board meeting.

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT- (Chief House)

Happy New year and I look forward to a great 2024.

     1. Promotions (s)
         o Congratulations to Mike Slone, appointed to Battalion Chief, Battalion 9 C Shift,
           effective January 2, 2024. BC Slone came to podium and provided a brief
           personal history to the Board.

         o   Congratulations to Daniel Weld who was promoted to Captain , effective January
             2, 2024. Captain Weld come to the podium and provide a brief personal history
             to the Board.

         o Congratulations to Michael Johnson, appointed to Assistant Chief, Shift
           Commander, C shift, effective January 3rd -

         a   Congratulations to Tom Koscielny, appointed to Battalion Chief, Battalion 5, C
             Shift, effective January 14, 2024.

         o Congratulations to Adam Schwartz who was promoted to Captain , effective
           January 14, 2024. Captain Schwartz came to the podium and provided a brief
           personal history to the Board.

         o Congratulations to Katie Trimble who was promoted to Captain , effective
           January 14, 2024.

     2. Recruitment(s)

        o Recruitment for Metro Medic Program 24-1 Drill Instructor. HR is accepting
          Letters of Interest and resumes until Wednesday, January 24th , from non-

1.11.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 2 of7
              probationary captains, Engineers, Firefighters/Paramedics and Paramedics for
              the position.

    3. Retirement(s)

              o Congratulations to Assistant Chief Charles Jenkins on his retirement. Chief
                 Jenkins retired December 31, after 32 years of service.

              o Congratulations to Captain Jeffrey Taylor on his retirement. Captain Taylor
                 retired December 31 , after 29 years of service.

    4. Miscellaneous

          o    Station 116 will be hosting a surprise celebration for Terry Barnes on Saturday,
               January 13th at 1pm. Celebrating 47 years of service.

          o    On Saturday, January 6th , Station 26 hosted an open house with a great turn
               out. Director Wood was in attendance.

          o It is with a heavy heart that I pass along that (Ret.) Captain and Board of
            Directors Greg Valley, passed away on December 6 th and, (Ret) Assistant Chief
            Melvin D. Johnson passed away on December 17th.

          o    Greg was a member of the Florin Fire District, and retired as a captain. After
               retirement, he became a member of the Board of Directors.

          o Melvin retired from Rancho Cordova Fire in 1992 as an Assistant Chief.

          o With further information to come, a celebration of life is being planned and more
            details will be sent out as they come. We will keep Captain Valley's and Chief
            Johnson's families in our thoughts during this difficult time.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
OAC Barthel provided the Shift Commander report. His report highlighted a cardiac arrest call
that occurred on 12/23/23. The crews from Engine and Medic 50 and provide patient care
that included CPR. During transport the patient had a return of spontaneous circulation and
ultimately walked out to the hospital, following treatment, with a good prognosis. Later that
same Day BC Barthel was approached by a citizen in a local Starbucks that had witnessed
the work of the crew earlier in the day and complimented their work.

Chief Barthel's spoke regarding the incident, introduced the members from Engine and Medic
50 that were on the incident. FF Jack Schwartzman , who was the lead Firefighter/Paramedic
for the call provided some additional details.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Bailey)

1.11.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 3 of 7
No Report


SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

Logistics:
   • No Report

Facilities:
   • Began construction on Purchasing Agent Courtney Moore's new office at
        Headquarters.
   • Completed all electrical requirements for the next phase in the station access control
        project.
   • Overhaul of all lighting on academy grounds and buildings.
   • Retrofit and install new apparatus bay lighting at station 114.

Fleet:
   • Two more Fire Mechanics reached the 10-year milestone.
   • Fleet held interviews for the rank of Fire Mechanic. Fleet had 2 very solid candidates
       that will fill the next 2 openings.
   • Fire Mechanic Andrew Purcell who is an Active Reservist with the US Air Force was
       deployed to Active Duty with orders until at least late January. Andy is a vital part of
       our South Fleet Shop serving the two Southern Battalions.
   • Fleet put 6 new Braun/Ford Type Ill Medics into service. So far, the feedback on these
       new units has been positive.
   • The last of the three new Pierce Enforcer Type I Engines was just put into service.
   • New power load systems to support the new gurneys have arrived and installed.
   • Two new ambulance remounts have recently arrived with equipment installation
       underway.

IT:
      •   IT has completed the annual inspection of fire and security systems at our fire stations
          and admin buildings.

Communications:
  • Completed the Communications Equipment Install on the following vehicles:
       o Two (2) Ambulances (Remounts)
       o One (1) New Truck
  • Currently working on the Communications Equipment Install on the new Water Tender.
  • Preparing for District wide radio programming to take place sometime in Feb/March.

CRRD:
  • CRRD staff received an appreciation email from Mutual Housing of Sacramento, an
     affordable housing complex on Stockton Blvd., for assistance with meeting
     construction deadlines needed for financial purposes.

1.11.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 4 of7
     •   The Sacramento County Fireworks Taskforce met to discuss plans for the 2024
         enforcement season.
     •   Members of the FIU attended Advance Officer training (AOT), which is continued
         professional training for law enforcement officer and required by the State of California
         for all peace officers.
     •   New Year's Eve - There was an uptake in community complaints regarding fireworks
         usage. However, Metro Fire did not respond to any fireworks related fires or injuries.

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Sean Scollard for Vice President Matt
   Cole)
Sean Scollard recognized and thanked Matt Cole for the last two years serving as Vice
President. Sean stated that he is currently rebu ilding the team below him as a Director
position is open that he vacated . He stated one of the areas that he will focus on is Workers
Compensation as there is always room for improvement and he will continue to collaborate
with Human Resources.

4.       COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
         All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
         10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

         A.      Executive Committee - (President Goold)

Met tonight and had one change to Committee assignments. Director Wood is now the
alternate on the Finance and Audit Committee and Director Clark is the member.

         8.      Communications Center JPA - (AC Greene)

The Communications Center JPA Board has not met since the last SMFD Board of Directors
Meeting.

The Communications Center JPA Board will meet next on January 23, 2024 for its regularly
scheduled meeting at SMFD's Boardroom.

         C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
                  Next Meeting: January 25, 2024 at 5:15 PM
                  No Report

         D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
                  Next Meeting: February 8, 2024 at 5:30 PM

                  No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Costa thanked HR Manager Melisa Maddux for the presentation this evening.


1.11 .2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                         Page 5 of7
Director Rice spoke regarding Terry Barnes and the 47 years of service he has given to
Metro Fire and thanked Director Saylors for leading the charge to honor him this Saturday.

Director Clark said welcome to the New Year and that he would like to see us follow-up on
our strategic plans.

Director Webber expressed congratulations on all the promotions announced this evening. Director
Webber said that he is pleased to hear the changes we made in 2023 in regards to Workers
Compensation has made a significant difference in streamlining the process.

Director Saylors gave special thanks to Engine 111 and Truck 26 who assisted with an issue
this week. Directors Saylors hopes to see everyone on Saturday to honor Terry Barnes.

Director Wood thanked the crews at Station 26 for their hospitality at the Open House. The
Firefighters Burn Institute Fill the Boot Drive will take place February 9 - 11, 2024 and
volunteers are needed.

President Goold thanked the retirees for their years of service and sacrifice. President Goold
would like to know how many of our members are also serving our Country.

A moment of silence was held for Greg Valley and Melvin D. Johnson.

CLOSED SESSION:

The Board recessed to Closed Session at 7:18 p.m. on the following matter:

1.     CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - ANTICIPATED LITIGATION -
       Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
       Section 54956.9 (b): One case
       Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
       Rose Phillips v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
       General Counsel John Lavra

       Action: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by
       members present to return the claim as untimely.

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

The Board reconvened to open session at 8:01 p.m. and Counsel Lavra reported the Board
met in closed session on one item on Government Code Section 54956.9 and unanimously
voted to return the claim as untimely.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:
https://metrofire.ca.gov/2024-01 -11-board-meeting
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

1.11.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 6 of7
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting was adjourned at 8:02 p.m.




Marni Rittburg, CMC, Board Cieri




1.11.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes   Page 7 of 7
