                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
     Todd Harms
      Fire Chief
                                           BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING

                                        Thursday, November 10, 2022 – 6:00 PM
                                               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Cinthia Saylors                                     10545 Armstrong Avenue
Board President
Division 1
                                                   Board Room – Second Floor
                                                        Mather, California
D’Elman Clark                                                   &
Board Vice President
Division 6                                             Remotely Via Zoom
                                                      Phone: (669) 900-6833
Walt White
Board Secretary                                    Webinar ID: 879 2951 3519#
Division 9                                           Passcode: 241 741 926#
Grant Goold
Board Member
                           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                     and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Randy Orzalli
Board Member
                       The Governor has declared a State of Emergency to exist in California as a result of
Division 3             the threat of COVID-19 (aka the “Coronavirus”). The Governor issued Executive
                       Order N-25-20 and N-29-20, which directs Californians to follow public health
Ted Wood               directives including canceling large gatherings. Per the State of Emergency effective
Board Member
Division 4             March 2, 2020, the Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       proclaimed that a local emergency exists, and authorized remote teleconference
Jennifer Sheetz        meetings from October 13, 2022 through November 11, 2022 pursuant to Brown Act
Board Member           provisions.
Division 5

Brian Rice             The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of the
Board Member           Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all appropriate health
Division 7
                       safety precautions. If you would like to view the meeting via the Zoom
Gay Jones              Application, please contact Board Clerk Penilla via email at the address listed
Board Member           below.
Division 8

                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
                       reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance
                       of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable accommodations:

                                                                  Melissa Penilla
                                                                    Board Clerk
                                                                  (916) 859-4305
                                                         penilla.melissa@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.



                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2022


CALL TO ORDER
ROLL CALL
PLEDGE TO FLAG
METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT
The Open Session Meeting is videotaped for cablecast on Metro Cable 14. Replay on
Saturday, November 12th at 2:00 pm and Monday, November 14th at 6:00pm on Channel 14;
Webcast at metro14live.saccounty.net.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN DISTRICT
JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and encourages public
interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public members desiring to address the
Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding officer and identify themselves for the record.
The presiding officer may in the interest of time and good order limit the number of public member
presentations. Speakers’ comments will be limited to three minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members of the Public
requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be present or have a
representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of issues to
committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval, declaration of surplus
equipment, and other consent matters. Consent Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board
member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                 Page No.
1.   Action Summary Minutes                                                      6
     Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board
     meeting of October 27, 2022.

2.      Retirement Resolution – Todd Harms                                                                            12
        Recommendation: Adopt Resolution acknowledging the accomplishments and
        career of Fire Chief Todd Harms.

3.      Temporary Construction Easement – Watt/Myrtle                                                                 17
        Recommendation: Adopt Resolution to authorize the execution of a
        Temporary Construction Easement.

4.      Hourly Fee Rate Adjustment – Longyear & Lavra                                                                 23
        Recommendation: Approve the fee rate adjustment from $185.00 per hour
        to $220.00 per hour.
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                              THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2022



5.    Employer’s Contribution Under the Public Employees’ Medical and Hospital         24
      Care Act – CalPERS Resolutions
      A. Resolution – Fixing SMFD’s Vesting Contribution Under Section 22896          25
                        of the Public Employees’ Medical and Hospital Care Act -
                        000 All Employees
      B. Resolution – Fixing the Employer Contribution at an Equal Amount for         27
                        Employees and Annuitants Under the Public Employees’ Medical
                        and Hospital Care Act - 000 All Employees
      C. Resolution – Fixing the Employer Contribution at an Equal Amount for          29
                        Employees and Annuitants Under the Public Employees’ Medical
                        and Hospital Care Act - 700 All Employees (Non-PERS)
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolutions establishing the health premium contributions
      to reflect the new benefit cap with CalPERS effective January 1, 2023.


Presentation Item
1.    Sleep Deprivation in the Fire Service (Laura K. Barger, Ph.D.)                                                *
      Recommendation: Receive the presentation, no action required.

ACTION ITEMS

1.    Award Recommendation – RFP 22-03 Helicopter 3 Equipment Upgrade                                              31
      And Mission Retrofit (Grant Russell, Battalion Chief – Special Operations)
      Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief, or his designee, to execute an
      Agreement with Advanced Helicopter Services not to exceed the amount of
      $787,221.

2.    CalPERS Employer Originated Retirement Application (Ty Bailey, Deputy Chief)                                 33
      Recommendation: Adopt a resolution allowing the Deputy Chief of Administration
      To submit an Employer-Originated Disability Retirement Application on behalf
      of the member to begin the Industrial Disability Retirement Process with CalPERS.

3.    Ratification of Resolution to Extend Teleconference of Board                                                 35
      Meetings (Government Code 54953(e) (3)) (President Saylors)
      Recommendation: Consider adopting a Resolution which would extend the
      ability to teleconference without compliance of Government Code paragraph
      (3) of subdivision (b) of section 54953 from November 10, 2022 – December 9,
      2022 or until further re-ratified.

4.    Resolution – Commending Director Orzalli                                                                     37
      (Chief Harms and Board Clerk Penilla)
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution commending Director Orzalli.


REPORTS
1.   PRESIDENT’S REPORT—(President Saylors)
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2022


2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT—(Fire Chief Harms)
           OPERATIONS’ REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

3.   SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
     10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.
     A.      Executive Committee – (President Saylors)
             Report Out: November 4, 2022
             Next Meeting: TBD

     B.      Communications Center JPA – (DC Wagaman)
             Report Out: November 5, 2022
             Next Meeting: November 22, 2022 at 9:00 AM

     C.      Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Orzalli)
             Next Meeting: TBD

     D.      Policy Committee – (Director Goold)
             Report Out: November 10, 2022 at 5:30 PM
             Next Meeting: TBD

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION

1.   CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL – EXISTING LITIGATION –
     Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9(d)(1): One case
     Case No. 34-2020-00286706-CU-BC-GDS
     Medic Ambulance Service, Inc. v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

2.   CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL – ANTICIPATED LITIGATION –
     Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
     Section 54956.9 (b): One case
     A. Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
         Erika Pina v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Deputy Chief Bailey

3.   Conference with Labor Negotiator
     Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6
     A. District Negotiator:    Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
        Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

     B. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
        Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                               Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                     THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2022


           C. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
              Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                     Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

           D. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
              Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                     and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

           E. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
              Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                     and Unrepresented Confidential Employees


CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT


ADJOURNMENT


NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, 10545
Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •     Special Board Meeting – November 12, 2022 at 8:00 AM

     •     Regular Board Meeting – December 8, 2022 at 6:00 PM

The following action and presentation items are scheduled for the next board meeting agenda.
Board members are requested to identify additional action or presentation items they desire to
be scheduled on the agenda.

ANTICIPATED AGENDA ITEMS:                       TBD

Posted on November 7, 2022


______________________________________
Melissa Penilla, Clerk of the Board
* No written report
**       Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
