       l          I    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   lfiu~
  ADAM A. HOUSE
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


    Fire Chief
                            BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                             Thursday, April 24, 2025 - 6:00 PM
                                            Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Ted Wood
Board President                                   10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4                                      Board Room - Second Floor
John Costa                                            Mather, California
Board Vice President                                          &
Division 9
                                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                   Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                     Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                    1i Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member            https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ 1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1 VWZz09
Division 1


Grant Goold
                       The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Board Member
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D'Elman Clark          Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice             reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Board Member
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member
                       accommodations:
Division 8
                                                              Marni Rittburg
                                                                Board Clerk
                                                              (916) 859-4305
                                                     rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                         Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties




                                                                                                                                P1
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                     THURSDAY, APRIL 24, 2025



►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the' Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov. Today's meeting replays at 2:00 p.m. on Sunday,
April 27, 2025, and again at 6:00 p.m. on Monday, April 28, 2025, on Metro Cable
Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand at
you tube. comlmetrocable 14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers' comments
will be limited to three (J) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                    . Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                             5
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of April 10, 2025.

2.     Adopt Resolution - Budget Amendment - MIH Program                           9
       Recommendation: Adopt Resolution to amend the Midyear Budget for Grants Fund
       212G for the Fiscal Year 2024/25.


                                                                                                                              P2
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                    THURSDAY, APRIL 24, 2025



PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.    AMAROK Electrified Security Fence Systems                                                                          11
      (Keith Kaneko, VP of Government Relations, AMAROK, LLC)
      (Nick Avdis, Partner, Attorney, Avdis and Cucchi, LLP)
      Recommendation: Receive the presentation.

ACTION ITEMS:

1.    Adopt Resolution - Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee Charter                                               27
      (Marni Rittburg, Clerk of the Board & Ad Hoc Committee)
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution adopting the Independent Citizens'
      Oversight Committee (IOCC) Charter and authorize the Clerk of the Board to .
      advance the formation of the Committee accordingly.

REPORTS:

1.    PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                 (President Wood)

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -               (Chief House)

            OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
            ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)
             SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

 3.   SMFD- FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
      522 Vice President)

4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
      Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

      A.     Executive Committee - (President Wood)
             Next Meeting: TBD

      B.     Communications Center JPA - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)
             Next Meeting: April 22 & May 13, 2025 at 9:00 AM
             SRFECC Annex - 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite B, Sacramento

      C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
             Next Meeting: May 22, 2025, at 5:30 PM


                                                                                                                              P3
•
~
REGULAR BOARD MEETING
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


                                                                                                THURSDAY, APRIL 24, 2025


         D.      Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
                 Next Meeting: May 8, 2025, at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matters:

1.       Pursuant to California Government Code 54957(a)
         Consultation with District Counsel and Cyber Security Manager

2.       CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - ANTICIPATED LITIGATION -
         Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
         Section 54956.9 {b): One Case

              Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
              Brandy Scott v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              Gen~ral Counsel John Lavra & Board Clerk Marni Rittburg

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •   Regular Board Meeting - May 8, 2025, at 6:00 PM

Posted on April 21 , 2025, by 4:30 p.m.




Clerk of the Board

** No written report
•fEi Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (91 6) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility.
                                                                                                                                P4
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           II
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (91 6) 859-4300 • Fax (~1 6) 859-3702

'11;1~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief        ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                                BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                        SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                    Thursday, April 10, 2025
                                 Held at the following locations:
                             10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                        Mather, California
                                                 &
                                       Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm by Vice President Costa. Board members
  present: Costa, Goold, Jones, Saylors, Stark, and Webber. Remotely: Clark and Rice. Board
  members absent: President Wood. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  No public comments were received.
       '
  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Goold seconded by Jones and carried unanimously by members present
  to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.       Action Summary Minutes
           Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
           of March 27, 2025.
           Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.       Adopt Resolution - Budget Amendment - SHSGP23 Grant Amendment
           Recommendation: Adopt Resolution to amend the Midyear Budget for Grants Fund
           212G for the Fiscal Year 2024/25.
           Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-018.

  PRESENTATION ITEMS

  1.       Strategic Planning: Capital Improvement Projects
           (Jeff Frye, Chief Development Officer)
           Recommendation: Receive the presentation.
           Action: Presentation received.




                                                                                                               P5
2.        Capital Improvement Program Update
          (Erin Castleberry, Administrative Analyst)
          Recommendation: Receive the presentation.
          Action: Presentation received.

REPORTS

1.       PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

          No Report

2.       FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Chief House)

Good evening, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public.

Director Rice: Body-Worn Camera Follow-Up
At our last meeting, Director Rice inquired about the use of Ring cameras and body-worn
cameras within the District. I've confirmed Metro Fire does not currently have a policy on
body-worn or Ring cameras, nor has the District requested body-worn camera footage. Leslie
Miller is looking into what such a policy might look like.

Acknowledgments

Frontline First Award - Captain Ryan Manfredi:
On April 5, Captain Ryan Manfredi was honored with the 2024 Frontline First Meritorious
Service Award for his outstanding leadership of our Peer Support Program. His efforts
continue to shape how we support our members' mental health and well-being.

2024 California EMS Awards:
This year, two of our members were selected among more than 150 nominees for top honors
from the CA EMS Authority at the upcoming 2024 CA EMS Awards ceremony:

     •    Assistant Chief Jon Rudnicki will receive the Distinguished Service Medal for
          leading EMS system improvements, including reduced ambulance offload times, a
          BLS-tiered response model, and county-wide protocol updates.
     •    Firefighter Barry Chris Lloyd has been named Paramedic of the Year for his
          exceptional clinical care, lifesaving actions during a critical trauma call, and years of
          service as a mentor and instructor.

These honors reflect their individual excellence and our agency's leadership statewide. This
marks the second year in a row Metro Fire personnel have been recognized with statewide
EMS awards.

Congratulating to Captain Manfredi, FF Lloyd, and AC Rudnicki for their well-deserved
recognition .

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

Deputy Chief Mitchell surprised AC Keeley with his 30-years of service pin.


                                                                                                      P6
4.1 0.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                         Page 2 of 4
Shift Commander Spotlight:
BC's · Parker Wilbourn and Jason Vestal recognized Firefighter Asher Smith from M29 for
facilitating a ride-along with one of our graduates from the 25-1 Citizens Academy. This
spotlight reinforces our members' dedication to going above and beyond the call for
emergency service and meeting Metro Fire's mission of educating our community. Firefighter
Smith spoke regarding his experience.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)

No Report

SUPPORT SERIVES - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

No Report

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
     BC Matt Cole gave the report for Captain Sean Scollard. During the last Board meeting,
     there was a focus on collaboration. BC Cole spoke about what 522 has been doing and
     the relationships they have built at the State and Federal levels. We strive to provide the
     highest level of service to our communities to make our communities safer. BC Cole
     stated that President Wood suggested 522 put a comprehensive presentation together to
     share who we are, what we do and why we do it at a future Board meeting.

4.      COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
        All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
        10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

        A.      Executive Committee - (President Wood)

                 No Report

        8.      Communications Center JPA - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)
                 No Report

        C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)

                 No Report

        D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)

                 No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Jones reported that she attended a Parkway Coalition meeting. We had an excellent
presentation from Mr. Ed Smith, a graduate of our Citizen Academy. He could not have been
more positive about the academy, and everyone in attendance expressed interest in signing·
up for the next Citizens Academy.

Director Saylors thanked staff for the great presentations tonight. Sacramento City Fire is
having a Girl Camp this weekend if any of my fellow Directors want to check that out.       P7
4.10.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                         Page 3 of 4
 CLOSED SESSION:
 The Board recessed to closed session at 6:54 p.m. on the following matters:

, 1. PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (A) -
     ONE (1) MATTER OF WORKERS' COMPENSATION SETTLEMENT AUTHORITY.

    1.    Steven Thorns and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          Claim # SMDQ-550289 - Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
          Tyler Sonksen of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP
          Action: Moved by Goold, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
          members present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a
          settlement of the matter.

 CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:
 The Board reconvened to open session at 7:02 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
 the Board met in closed session on one item: 1. Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
 of Steven Thorns claim, the Board voted unanimously to give settlement authority to its third-
 party administrator to effectuate a settlement of that claim.

 To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
 channel:

 https://metrofire.ca.gov/2025-04-10-board-meeting

 https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA


 ADJOURNMENT

 The meeting was adjourned at 7:03 p.m.



 Ted Wood, Board President                           Robert Webber, Secretary



 Marni Rittburg, CMC
 Board Clerk




                                                                                                  PB
 4.10.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 4 of 4
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702



ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief

     DATE:          April 24, 2025
     TO:            Board of Directors
     SUBJECT:       Budget Amendment 212G - MIH Program


                                             TOPIC
     Adopt a budget amendment for Grants Fund 212G for FY2024/25.

                                               BACKGROUND
     On July 11, 2024, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's (District) Board of Directors adopted
     Resolution 2024-100 to accept a grant award from the County of Sacramento (County)'
     Department of Health Services (OHS) totaling $1,375,000, for the expansion of the District's
     Mobile Integrated Health (MIH) Program. The proposed program expansion activities included
     expanding hours of operation, days of operation, and/or adding an additional unit., at the
     discretion of the District and in response to community need.

                                                DISCUSSION
     At the time of the grant award, the District had existing service contracts in place with the County
     for the MIH Program, which funded the program's operational costs. Based on the timing of those
     contracts, the District estimated that the program would begin to utilize the ·grant funding
     beginning in July 2025, so these funds were not included in the FY24/25 budget.

     Based on current estimated operational costs, the District now believes that the program will need
     to begin utilizing the grant funding in June 2025, so a budget amendment is needed to add the
     necessary funding to cover the program's operational costs for June 2025, estimated at $138,750.

                                                FISCAL IMPACT
      Grant funding in the amount of $138,750 will be added to the FY2024/25 Midyear Budget through
      the attached budget amendment. There is no match requirement. Any unspent funds at the end
      of the fiscal year will be re-budgeted in FY2025/26 for continued program activities.


                                         RECOMMENDATION
      Staff recommends adoption of the attached resolution to amend the Midyear Budget for Grants
      Fund 212G for the Fiscal Year 2024/25.

                                                           Approved by:              •

                                                            (
      Erin Castleberry, Adn • is ative Analyst             Jef                    elopment Officer
      Planning and Development                             Pia                eve opment

      ATTACHMENT:           Resolution Adopting a Budget Amendment to the Midyear Budget for
                            Grants Fund 212G for the Fiscal Year 2024/25



                                     Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                              pg
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief
                                RESOLUTION NO. 2025-XXX
       A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
          ADOPTING A BUDGET AMENDMENT TO THE MIDYEAR BUDGET
            FOR GRANTS FUND 212G FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2024/25
          WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political subdivision
  of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant to the State
  constitution and laws; and
         WHEREAS, on July 11, 2024 the District accepted a grant award from the County of
   Sacramento in the amount of $1,375,000 for the Mobile Integrated Health ("MIH") Program; and

           WHEREAS, the District intends to utilize these funds beginning in June 2025; and

         WHEREAS, on March 13, 2025 the District adopted the Midyear Budget for Grants Fund
   212G for Fiscal Year 2024/25, which did not include this funding.
          THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, in accordance with Section 13890 of the Health and
   Safety Code, the Midyear Budget for the Grants Fund 212G for the Fiscal Year 2024/25 will be
   and is hereby further amended in accordance with the following:
                                                                                          FY2024/25
                      FUND            COST                                                INCREASE
   ACCOUNT      FUND CENTER          CENTER           ACCOUNT CATEGORY                    (DECREASE}
   10111000     212G  2126000        2126000000       SALARY & WAGES                         $120,000
   20203100     212G  2126000        2126000000       BUSINESS ACTIVITY EXP                    15,000
   20289900     212G  2126000        2126000000       OTHER SERVICES                            3,750
   95953100     212G  2126000        2126000000       AID/OTHER LOCAL GOVT                    138,750

          BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the means of financing the expenditure program will
   be by monies derived from all revenue sources and fund balance available.

         PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 24th day of April, 2025. I, MARNI
   RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT HEREBY
   CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting of the
   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

   AYES:
   NOES:
   ABSENT:
   ABSTAIN:

                                         SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT

                                         By: _ __ __ _ __ __ __
                                            President, Board of Directors
   ATTEST:


   Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
   Clerk of the Board
                                Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties                                   P10
         A         AROK
         ULTIMATE PERIMETER SECURITY




                          Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                          Board of Directors

""C
......
......
                    Purpose: Electrified Security Fence Technology

                  8,000+ Installations - 1,200+ Jurisdictions - 48 States
                             1,500+ Installations in California
         •   Technology is not new to CA and SMFD (-1 O+ years) - numerous businesses in
             District permitted and utilizing the technology
         •   Secures assets stored outdoors on industrial, manufacturing, and commercial
             properties only (not allowed for residential use)     r--
         •   2024 Assembly Bill 2371 (Juan Carrillo and Heath Flora) amended CA Civil
             Code Section 835 - Electrified Security Fences to eliminate barriers and
             streamline the permitting for this security technology - permitted solely by
             Sacramento County Sheriff as a security alarm system.
         •   Numerous local businesses need this security and are in support of this request.


                                                                              ~~                        ft"\,a.
               CALIBER                        ( '            PAClFIC COAST                         -~
               - - -
               COLLISION   ~ BEACON                     ~SUPPL'lLLC
                                               .._._,.<'I:
                                                                              5_:,5
                                                                                 •    ••
                                                                               D1stnbution
                                                                                                   CAMPING
                                                                                                   WORLD


              ( PENSKE)             ~   United· BrightView ~
                                    ~ · Rentals                              Landscape,Services
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                  SUNBELT
                                                                                                   RENTAL S


                                                                                                                             ~
""C
......                         AMAROK Proprietary & Confidential. All rights reserved.                            AMAROK
                                                                                                                  ULfll'IATC f'l ..l'll'TI• Sl CUIIUTY




"'
              · THE PROBLEM: OTHER SECURITY MEASURES FAIL




         Barbed wire, chain link and wrought iron fences are easily cut and breached;
               surveillance cameras record but do not deter criminal trespass


                                                                                       AMAROK
                                                                                               ~
-a                          AMAROK Proprietary & Confidential. All rights reserved .
......                                                                                 ULTIKATC f'tlu"'nu stev•1rv

c..:,
                              COMPREHENSIVE MONITORED PERIMETER ALARM SYSTEM



                              Preventative + Reactive System to Deter Criminal Trespass




                          lfllffld ~ il ~ i!)                                                           ~~

                                                 DEFEND                      DETECT
                                                                                                    ~
         "WARNING! ElECTRIC m;cc·
            ...---

         -, *-
            \t 7,000 V
             ALUIIUDOY-

         .iPEUGRO! Cerca Electrica.
                                      DETER
                                                                                                 DEPLOY
                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                               Ma
                                                                                                              VERIFIED
                                                                                                             Crime Only!




                                                                                                                              ~
-c                                            AMAROK Proprietary & Confidential. All rights reserved.               AMAROK
......                                                                                                              ut.:nl'IA.n ,.._1,u"f111: stcu,nn

~
                            DETERS CRIMINAL TRESPASS

                       How the Electrified Security Fence technology works ...
        ·wARNING! tlECTRIC mn·
          AlAIUIGDANDMONITOll£D




        T7,~V                                •    Warning Signage posted every 30 feet
                                             •    Security wires located behind the non-electrified.
                                                  perimeter fence/ barrier
                                             •    12 Volt DC Battery Powered (NOT connected to
                                                  mains/grid power)
                                             •    Pulse frequency is every 1.3 Seconds (NOT
                                                  continuous current)
                                             •    Pulse duration of less than 10 milliseconds - Jess
                                                  than the duration of a static shock.


                                                        I MEDI CALLy SAFE I
          If a criminal encounters the security system, they have already made an
                        intentional and concerted effort to TRESPASS!,
                                                                                                          ~
'"tJ
.....                              AMAROK Proprietary & Confidential. All rights reserved.     AMAROK
                                                                                               UlTlflU.Tl Pllltl JIIIITCI u:c ualTV

u,
               COMPLIANT WITH SAFETY STANDARDS

       Technology meets standards set by the International Electrotechnical Commission
        (IEC 60335 -2-76), National Standards, CA Civil Code Section 835, and is certified
                and listed by a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory (NRTL).
                                                                                                                                          - r_!,-" ·.'/C
                                                                                                                                                    ' ✓:✓                ~U!
                                                                                                                                                                              -~ ~j   a
                                                                                      CERTIFICATE OF CO~PUANCE
                                . I\ r,:1nerican NaUona,
                                                                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                cO
                                                                                      Ceniftcote Number.           SGSNA/23/SUWI00011


              International    ~~~                 ;{;'~~'<>-                         Conlract Number:
                                                                                      c..--- ~
                                                                                                                   801478


                                                                                      ~-                           15'-Tll!RVPO'l,e,e)=cnac:m«:e
              Electrotechnical                                                        Tr.tdolMrtca:
                                                                                      Model(•}:
                                                                                      T~O.ta:
                                                                                                                   ~AS0ACS.A129a>.AWHE.A'Mi!X..&N2Z...uMZ.AIMS.0CUPS
                                                                                                                   JaON!S:t2Wt.204,;ASDACS:12'Vdt.50A;A129CP:12VO,:.SASA;AWHE:
                                                                                                                   12Vdic. 1,1SA.AWHSC:12Vdt..D.65A;AN2Z: 12Vdt,~AN4Z: 1%Wc:, SA;

       I l l® Commission                                        INTERNATIONAL                                      .ARWS: t2Ydt,Q.5SA;DCUPS: 12Vd<, ....

                                                                Standards Worldwida   Oettlnco. Kofct.r.:


                                                                                      ':llla_
                                                                                      --~·
                                                                                      ~~
                                                                                              _,~                  -
                                                                                                                   AMARCJ(.LLC
                                                                                                                   550---Plolr.:mD1.~Soull\Calolno,UrilodSlo6nd

                                                                                                       ··- - . . . . , , - - - - W ~ - - -=~
                                                                                                            ...                              ~          -
                                                                                                                                              •. • - = t : . . - , Y d
                                                                                                                                           - c : - , i - . , ~ - - - -#~ "
                                                                                                              _ _ _Ot_ _ _,.,... . . . . . . . .
                                                                                                                  ___.
                                                                                       Ul GQ:33S.1, &ti Ed.. o.d Oc1Dba'31, 20115
                                                                                       CANICSA=Ho. G03)5.1:IC. o.ml~:2Dt41
                                                                                                                                                    -           -:.:._


                                                                                       CSAC22.2NO. G033S-:~3111e4_3111
                                                                                       IECml3:5-2·~:2018




             s                               ..
                                        TUVRheinland
                                                                ®
                                                                                       -I>,:




                                                                                       --
                                                                                       ,,_
                                                                                           ViJa:J ~ O J \ .
                                                                                                                                                   ·-
                                                                                                                                                    .,, -=::o-::m•




                                                                                                            SG~
                                                                                                                                 ----                                           .1
                                                                                                                             I




                                                                                       ~~~~~
                                                                                       .   -      -    --- ---- · --"'- -
                                                                                                                                 ~,1......a,~__..,crcc,,.._1-G.
                                                                                                                                 IQDCJll. . . . . . .,..,:a.,-~C,,\x:M,"°""
                                                                                                                                 I +177D~10f • 17'Dfflt:AO-..-
                                                                                                                                                                                ,. .. _

                                                                                                                                                                                "'
                                                                                                                                                                                          .•




                                                                                                                                                                                          AMAROK
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~
""'C
_.                           AMAROK Proprietqry & Confidential. All rights reserved.                                                                                                      ULTJl'U.TC PUttlUTCJt S(CUJtlTV

a,
         ALARM DETERRENT:                                                     ALARM FOLLOW UP:
         DETECT                                                               DEPLOY

         Audible & monitored alarm system which                               If an activated alarm is confirmed to be
         activates when trespass is detected. System                          a trespasser, responders are then
         includes remote access to arm/disarm.                                contacted and deployed to respond.

                                                        I~
                                                        ~
                                                        ~
                                                        ~
                                                        ~
                                                                                             ISSUANCE DATE
                             BUREAU OF SECURITY AND INVESTIGATIVE
                                                                                           NOVEMBER 17, 2011
                             SERVICES                                                      EXPIRATION DATE
                              LICENSING DETAILS FOR: 7084                                  NOVEMBER 30, 2025
                               NAME: ELECTRIC GUARD DOG, LLC
                               LICENSE TYPE: ALARM COMPANY OPERATOR
                               PRIMARY STATUS: CURRENT
                               PREVIOU} NAMES: SENTRY SECURITY SYSTEMS, LLC
                               ADDRESS OF RECORD
                               SS0ASSEMBLY ST FL 5
                               COLUMBIA SC 29201-4171
                               RICHLAND COUNTY




                   AMAROK is Alarm Company Operator licensed by DCA-8S1S and
                    the technology is solely permitted as a security alarm system.
                                                                                                                     AMAROK
                                                                                                                               ~
""C
......                                AMAROK Proprietary & Confidential. All rights reserved.                        UL111'1ATI Hll:l"'IT(a StCUIIITV


-J
                EXISTING GATE DETAIL

      • Numerous existing installations were
        approved by SMFD without the
        requirement for a ~lick-2-Enter
        motorized/automated gate system and
        other ancillary conditions
      • Installation on existing gates does not
        add an additional gate or barrier to
        access a property through said existing
        gates
      • Installation does not expand or alter the
        use or function of the existing gate -
        does not impede access
      • Operative entry into a property through
        existing gates is the same, with or
        without an electrified security fence
        system
                                                                                       AMAROK
                                                                                                 ~
--0
_..                         AMAROK Proprietary & Confidential. All rights reserved .   UL'nf'IAT( Nltl fllt'tta sr:cu,nTY

(X)
              EMERGENCY DEACTIVATION

                                                               ·IJK"!~-                                                         Knox Gate&· Key Switch
           KNOX switch provides emergency
                                                                    ~~
                                                                                                                     _ _ __o-ridoo



                                                                                                                         I
        responders with an emergency shut-off
       to deactivate the electrified security fence              !r.
                                                                   ~
                                                                    o~-
                                                                ea!<c100ffllW:GOQ.OjY.J!Jn00:00.---•
                                                                                                                         -~~i--";.'.:,f~-~                                                       r.:it':O:.-:--i

                                                               . _ _ l)Odo<bl;nQ0100,fm .,._;.,, "'°"""II.
                                                                ,.,....,. . Li=! 111 'f-.ap;a'a:atic:r.;ii,d1t. ,~       ....~ ,"· ---~-
                                                                                                                         -=~;.                   -I ~
                                                                                                                                                                                 ..
                                                                                                                                                                                 !   ~l ~..........
                                                                                                                                                                                               :
                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                ~-~ ..,.nc::k.itC1J1 b■~w~th                                                                                     i ~r:-
                                                                W'~ a,ck:11 ~, D(sS:J ri:a•(Cf1i'Q,.Q,S ata~-            !."':::~ •                            --.-.,.-          i' r ~I   . i    .'                   ,.,,..
                                                                Qffl:fDCfflcff1.,C IOC«0..

                                                                                                                         ~~
                                                                Fee~ aod8onel1t8
                                                                " Sf~«i1u:J~CIWilID.
                                                                .. 'N)I,,. E1Aa Cf: low ~fCJrL-tm~.:-.;c:.n.t~ct:CC;fr
                                                                                                                         __
                                                                                                                         ...,.......,..
                                                                                                                         ....
                                                                                                                                        .._
                                                                                                                                 ' =::.."- - -~-
                                                                                                                         ==----1:::::
                                                                                                                              ~~
                                                                                                                                                 I            []                 ! ., .

                                                                  -   --
                                                                • O!iQ~~npcd:on«morrKltt~f DWf4..:h'.
                                                                ... iFDCv pl~ a.1fll. bck·D!1lll)r QR~ii l f l l ~       Mod>o!.S51l3 f' -----..
                                                                                                                         Oi.d:s;.•ilefl          =--
                                                                                                                                              .,...,,                                  - - -               -'-
                                                                   - - - - I o n :_
                                                                                                                                                            FIi(,              • :p uucE ,,                   '[
                                                                Elec::lric:al Data
                                                                • SV,TI'cit: z-ororCPC'r
                                                                                                                          ·=       ~
                                                                                                                                    o.
                                                                                                                           ...~ . •-....--.:.
                                                                                                                           ..,,_"'1_, _     _,I
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                        ~ -~
                                                                                                                                                 ....... .
                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                               alll&. a:;QD'
                                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                         i:,;.,;a,a-,-

                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                         -~.11:,,1:1


                                                                ... 7A.rvwtW.4A~ucU.1rw.·:.1r,,«.. za~
                                                                                                     vc-:.:                ...,,,,;.,,._
                                                                                                                           _..,.,..~                    ~ -- - 'l                                           ,.,,,,

                                                                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                .. ?'A ~.:t.5_A...:umw-,t5D,a:1Jr!:1,:U
                                                                   1/llC:
                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                                           - -.:.::~ I!                 I _~
                                                                • 7 A.na:nw.cr ~               . t l6-VIG, c!O,H=.
                                                                                                                                                        E-
                                                                - ut.•.arut:~1~7-~!SO•Jil;.,
                                                                .. T ~ ~ c p 1 : s • ~ ~

                                                                  --E11117~·
                                                                                                                           --
                                                                                                                          • M.M'1Ntallll«l

                                                                                                                           -~"'·-- ·ftN ~
                                                                                                                                                              __@                    @




                                                                  _..,__......._~-~
                                                                 T h e J C , _ . . : e - , . , . , ~ - ~....                                              Ordl4fna,Spedn~
                                                                  «OIQO:- - - - ~                                          ~                          ~,::: us•'r.::.-=gptu•S.'.:-·~                               .
                                                                                                                           Oilttctr                  .!:11;:J'f crt:i:it1t;':'A~AJ.W.i.dMI . ~!MtD'..iic.,.·
                                                                  - r a c -·-                ·. .,._,_,,,...;,...;                                   ··""'·P""I'"-
                                                                  -..y.;,..--... -....-...·                                ~
                                                                                                                          · A'N:
                                                                                                                                                     ~~•~1Ufl:~:»-COl"000C.C..~
                                                                                                                                                      ·:.X.O~llt"Kll:Oil•.Sic.;.,::>a.11::h):n"t'!a.aat.ict
                                                                  IKIXIIINN:&.l»NQl'aa:Qm.,.;,SIPD)l1111:..U..
                                                                                                                           I.O":-~ ~                 ·oac:uCQIIIPlll,MY

                                                               ._.....,.. . .1- . . - - w w v ~ ~ A Z . . . r - ~ .. ~..,.._ .. ..,..'fllllt'...,.. .. --_,,_.--=- .. . . . . , _ ~
                                                                .~ - - ~ ·




""C                         AMAROK Proprietary & Confidential. All rights reserved.                                                                                                                    .AMAROK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I>
__..                                                                                                                                                                                                   UL'Tl 'U.fl i,1111"'nu StCUll'lfV


co
      SAMPLE PHOTOS




               .--:




""C
                                                                      AMAROK
                                                                              ~
N           AMAROK Proprietary & Confidential. All rights reserved.   UlTlM.n PUl,,.trH SCCUlbTY
0
                Timeline: Historical Facts and Present-Day Issue

     •   Prior to Year 2023, numerous properties were approved by SMFD
         without extraneous conditions; there have been no concerns or safety
         issues reported
     •   Year 2023:
          o   SMFD began imposing extraneous requirements as a condition of
              approval on all electrified security fence applications
          o   SMFD cited Sacramento County Gate and Barrier standards
              regulating the construction of 'new' gates, requiring all electrified
              security fence projects to be conditioned with the removal of
              existing gates (even lawfully installed) and replacement with new
              Click-2-Enterbranded automated/motorized gate systems
          o   November 2023: Staff amended FPS 27 to explicitly call out the
              requirement for all gates to "be modified to be electrically
              operated for entry and exit... " (Click-2-Enten


-a                         AMAROK Proprietary & Confidential. All rights reserved.   AMAROK
                                                                                              I>
                                                                                     UL"nN TI Pl litl"ITU srcu•1TV


"'
_.
             Timeline: Historical Facts and Present-Day Issue (cont.)



       • Year 2024: AB 2371 (Juan Carrillo ·and Heath Flora)
         enacted into law as a permit streamlining act to:
          "To protect and secure businesses, employees, and
          other stakeholders from escalating incidences of
          trespass that have led to theft of valuable assets and
          risks to employee safety, it is necessary that this act
          take effect immediately." AB 2371, Section 4.
       • At present, 29 businesses under SMFD jurisdiction are
         affected by this impasse in staff policy and remain
         inadequately secured.



                                                                                  AMAROK
                                                                                             ~
""'C
N)
                        AMAROK Proprietary & Confidential. All rights reserved.   Ul.1'1Mf l Plltll'lleTUI stC\UtlT't

N)
              Statement of Facts and Issues


       • The installation does not propose ~new' gates as part of
         the project; most properties' gates have existed for many
         years/decades;

       • There are no changes to the function of existing gates -
         gates operate the same with or without the security
         system;

       • No additional~~o r secondary gates are proposed or added

       • Click-2-Entergate systems are c9st prohibitive to
         businesses, and some properties have multiple access
         gates;


..,,                                                                                       ~
                       AMAROK Proprietary & Confidential. All rights reserved.   AMAROK
                                                                                 U1.T INTI ~Ulf'U Ttlt SlCUIIITY
N
(.&)
              Statement of Facts and Issues (cont.)


      • Civil Code Section 835 - Electrified Security Fences
        provides for the installation of a (Knox) deactivation
        device for first responders, if required by a jurisd iction;

      • FPS 27 was amended without the required public noticing,
        comment, and Board approval process.
                                 ,......_


      • No ott,er jurisdiction has required similar conditions or
        requirements for the installation of an electrified security
        fence system.




                                                                                                  ~
""C                     AMAROK Proprietary & Confidential. All rights reserved.   AMAROK
                                                                                    ,.,.,"'nu sr.eu,urv
                                                                                  U\.t l fltATC
N
~
           Requests for Resolution


      • SMFD withdraw FPS 27

      • Approve Knox orders for electrified security
        fence installations




                                                                                     ~
""C               AMAROK Proprietary & Confidential. All rights reserved .   AMAROK
                                                                             UlT11'U.Tl ,c111tnusicu11n


"'
0,
      A         AROK
      ULTIMATE PERIMETER SECURITY




                          THANK YOU
""C

""
C')
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief



     DATE:         April 24, 2025

     TO:           Board of Directors

     SUBJECT:      Adopt Resolution Approving the Independent Citizens' Oversight
                   Committee Charter

                                                 TOPIC

     Consider Adopting a Resolution to adopt the Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee
     Charter and authorize the Clerk of the Board to advance the formation of the committee
     accordingly.

                                            BACKGROUND

     Measure O stipulates that all expenditures will be subject to oversight by an independent
     Citizens' Oversight Committee, composed of individuals appointed by the Board, to confirm
     that bond expenditures are consistent with Measure O's intent.

     On February 13, 2025, the Board of Directors appointed Directors Jones, Saylors, and Stark
     to an Ad Hoc Committee (Ad Hoc) to consider the qualification and selection criteria for
     members of the Measure O Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee (Committee) and
     bring a recommendation to the Board for tne formation of the Committee.

                                             DISCUSSION

     The purpose of the Measure O Independent Citizens Oversight Committee (Committee) is
     to ensure transparency, accountability, and proper use of funds generated by Measure 0
     bonds issued under the authority of the voters of the District, by reviewing the expenditure
     of bond funds and reporting back to the Board whether the expenditures were consistent
     with Measure O's intent. Staff met twice with the Ad Hoc to develop the Measure 0
     Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee Charter (Attachment 1), which outlines the
     Committee's purpose and responsibilities, structure, recruitment and appointment process,
     governance and operations, and support and resources.

     The Ad Hoc also worked with Staff to develop an implementation timeline for the formation
     of the Committee (Attachment 2). The proposed timeline ensures that the Committee will be
     in place and onboarded in advance of an intended review of the audited financial report for
     bond expenditures made in Year 1 (Fiscal Year 2025/26).




                                  Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                          P27
Page 2


         In accordance with the proposed charter document, the existing Ad Hoc will continue its
         service to advance the formation of the Committee until the Committee has been appointed
         by the Board.

                                             FISCAL IMPACT

         No fiscal impact.

                                          RECOMME~DATION

         The Ad Hoc Committee and Staff recommend that the Board of Directors adopt the
         Resolution adopting the Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee (ICOC) Charter and
         authorize the Clerk of the Board to advance the formation of the Committee accordingly.


         Submitted by:                                     Approved by:



         Marni Rittburg                                    Adam A. House
         Board Clerk                                       Fire Chief


         ATTACHMENTS:

         Attachment 1: Resolution with Charter Exhibit
         Attachment 2: ICOC Implementation Plan - Year 1




                                     Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                    P28
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE                      RESOLUTION NO. 2025~.XXX
  Fire Chief

   A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT ADOPTING
         THE INDEPENDENT CITIZENS' OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE CHARTER

         WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political subdivision of
  the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant to the State constitution
  and laws; and

         WHEREAS, on November 5, 2024, voters approved Measure 0 , authorizing the District to
  issue up to $415 million in General Obligation (GO) bonds for capital projects; and

         WHEREAS, the District adopted Resolution 2024-137 on December 12, 2024, whereby the
  Board recognized the successful passage of Measure O by more than two-thirds of the votes cast,
  and authorized the District to implement Measure O; and

         WHEREAS, Measure O stipulates that all expenditures will be subject to oversight by an
  Independent Citizens Oversight Committee, composed of individuals appointed by the Board , to
  confirm that bond expenditures are consistent with Measure O's intent; and

         NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the Sacramento
  Metropolitan Fire District Does Hereby adopt the Measure O Independent Citizens' Oversight
  Committee (ICOC) Committee Charter establishing the composition of the committee and defining
  the scope of the committee's responsibilities, as set forth in the attached Exhibit A, and authorize
  the Clerk of the Board to advance the formation of the Committee accordingly.

        PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED this 24th day of April 2025. I, MARNI
  RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT HEREBY
  CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting of the
  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

  AYES:
  NOES:
  ABSENT:
  ABSTAIN:

                                        SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                        By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                            President, Board of Directors
  ATTEST:


  Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
  Clerk of the Board

  Attachments: Exhibit A: Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee Charter
                                 Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                         P29
                                                                           /




MEASURE 0
INDEPENDENT CITIZENS' OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE CHARTER


BACKGROUND
On July 25, 2024, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's (District) Board of Directors
(Board) adopted Resolution 2024-102 ordering a general obligation bond election for the
issuance of bonds not to exceed $415 million (Measure 0), in order to generate the
necessary revenue to meet the District's identified capital needs. Following the November
5, 2024 election, the Board adopted Resolution 2024-137 on December 12, 2024,
whereby the Board recognized the successful passage of Measure O by more than two-
thirds of the votes cast, and authorized the District to implement Measure 0.

Measure O authorizes the issuance of general obligation bonds in one or more series not
to exceed $415 million, for the purpose of financing identified projects and certain costs
in connection with the issuance of the bonds. Proceeds from the sale of bonds authorized
by Measure O shall be used only for the construction, expansion, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, replacement, furnishing, and equipping of fire facilities, the acquisition or
lease of real property for fire facilities, and the acquisition or lease of fire and emergency
medical vehicles, apparatus, and capital equipment, all as listed on the Bond Project List.

Measure O stipulates that all expenditures will be subject to oversight by an independent
oversight committee, composed of individuals appointed by the Board, to confirm that
bond expenditures are consistent with Measure O's intent.


PURPOSE & RESPONSIBILITIES

Committee Purpose
The purpose of the Measure O Independent Citizens Oversight Commit_     tee (Committee)
is to ensure transparency, accountability, and proper use of funds generated by Measure
0 bonds issued under the authority of the voters of the District, by reviewing the
expenditure of bond funds and confirming whether the expenditures are consistent with
the Measure O's intent.

Committee Responsibilities
The Committee's responsibilities shall include:
   • Conducting and participating in public meetings as described herein.
   • Reviewing District reports related to bond expenditures.
   • Making a finding to the District's Board of Directors on an annual basis as to
     whether or not bond funds were used in accordance with the bond measure's
      intended purposes.




                                                                                                 P30
                                      .,
 COMMITTEE STRUCTURE

 Membership Composition
 The Committee shall consist of nine (9) members and three (3) alternates appointed by
 the Board. Members shall be selected to reflect a broad representation of the community,
 including, but not limited to:
     • Geographic distribution within the District's jurisdiction
     • Varied industry/professional/community expertise/experience

 Eligibility Requirements
 The Committee shall consist of members who meet the following eligibility requirements:
    • Must reside within the District's jurisdiction
    • Must be at least 18 years of age
    • Be independent of any employment or governance role of the District
    • No material personal or financial interest in the District which is distinguishable
        from that of the general public


 RECRUITMENT & APPOINTMENT PROCESS

• Recruitment Strategy
  Committee members will be recruited through an open application process. Recruitment
  efforts will include outreach to the community through email, website, social media, and
  local media, among other methods. The District will engage local stakeholders including
  civic groups, business associations, and community leaders.

 Application Process
 Interested candidates must complete an online application form that includes their
 qualifications, relevant experience, and statement of interest. Applications may be
 submitted by other means as necessary, at the discretion of the Ad Hoc Committee. The
 application process will be open for a period of 60 days from the date the application is
 posted on the District's website. The application period may be extended at the Board's
 discretion.

 Appointment Process
 Applications will be reviewed by the Ad Hoc Committee of the Board, for the purposes of
 making a recommendation to the Board on the appointment of Committee members. The
 Committee shall be established by the formal action of the Board and its members shall
 be appointed by the Board with a majority vote. The Board may also use the application
 and appointment process to fill vacancies on the Committee as needed.




                                                                                             P31
GOVERNANCE & OPERATIONS

Officers
The Committee shall elect from its members on an annual basis, a Chairperson and a
Vice Chairperson to facilitate meetings and represent the Committee in public forums.
Officers shall serve one-year terms.

Meetings
The Committee shall meet at least once annually, with additional meetings scheduled as
necessary at the discretion of the Committee. All meetings shall be open to the public,
held in the District's Board Chambers, and conducted in compliance with open meeting
laws (Brown Act), ensuring transparency and public participation. Meeting agendas and
minutes shall be published and made available to the public in accordance with the Brown
Act.

Quorum & Voting
A quorum shall consist of a majority of appointed members. Actions of the Committee
shall require a majority vote of the quorum.

Alternates
Alternates appointed by the Board will be used to meet quorum requirements and fill
vacancies on the Committee as needed. Alternates are encouraged to attend all
Committee meetings.


SUPPORT & RESOURCES

District Support
In support of the Committee's operations, the Clerk of the Board shall provide
administrative support, including meeting coordination, recordkeeping , and public
noticing. The District will also provide the financial reports, audits, and related documents
necessary for the Committee to fulfill its purpose. Other District staff may provide
additional support to the Committee for presentations, education, and other support
necessary for the Committee to fulfill its purpose.


AMENDMENTS TO CHARTER

This Charter may be amended by a majority vote of the District's Board of Directors, with
input from the Committee, as needed to enhance effectiveness or comply with changes
in law or policy.




                                                                                                P32
       INDEPENDENT CITIZENS1 OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
       Implementation Plan - Year 1

                                                                                                                                                                           OYERSIGHT MEm'IG
                                                                                                                                                                               !COC/SU!I
                                                                                                                                                   OIIBOAR0fflG MEETIIIG
                                                                                                                                                        ICQC/Slilll
                                                                                                                             INAUGURAL lltEEllNG
                                                                                                                                  ICOC/Slafl
                                                                                                           ICOC: APPOINIBI
                                                                                          . APPUCAl'ION CLOSES Blalll
                                                                                                   SW!
                                                                                                    I
                                                                           APPUCATIONO~
       ~ IEl:INS
        M_-OClll
              c.~                               •      I     t          -,
                                                                                   1
                                                                                  "Stal

                                                                                              ->--.;.-- ~---.-;                 t. ....,.___: - ~ . - - - , . . ~ I                                04
          Jul-25      A~g-25 Sep~25 Oct-25          Nov-25 0ec-25     Jan-Z       Feb-2.o'..Mar-26 Apr-26 May-26 Jun-26       Jul-2o    Aug-2&      Sep-2&     0d-26       Nov-26 Dec-26        Jan-27




                                                                                                                             -~ --.........--
                       •                                     ~CRIITMENT~UIR£ACH                                                  I                     •
                                                                 • • CCRE/liwi!
                                                                                            APPUC.mON REVIEW
                                                                                                 .Ad Hee
                                                                                                                                 I

                                                                                                                         -•~·                                          S..iu,
                                                                                                                                                                             ......_,,,....,..,~. ..,
                                                                                                                                                                                              . lCOC/Sla




       Projed Milestones

         DATE               MILESTONE                      ASSIGNEDTO

         7/1/2025          FY2075~ B•:s
          -
         1/1/2026          Rtcrullmffll/Outreach             CORE/Board
         --
         -2/1/2fJ2&        AppUcation Opens                  Stall
         -
        .J/31/2fJZ6        AppUccllon Clo:SC$                St'ofl
          -
         1,Jl/2fJ26        Appljcauon·.Revlew                Ad Hoc

         5/15/2026         ICOC Appo_hlted                   Bcerd

         6/J.0/2026        Pi2025/Z6 Ends
         --
         iitsfiou.         Inaugural Meeting                 ICOC/Staff
          -
         ·M/2fJ2&          Audit Report Prop                 Staff/Audilor

         9/ISJ"ioi6        On boarding Meeting               ICO.C/Stoff

         10~/2026          Audi Report Complete              Staff/Auditor
           --
         1)/15/202&        Oversight Mming                   ICOC/StaH

         1/lu/ZOtl         Oversight Report lo Boen!         ICOC/Stoff/Boord
""ti
w
w
