       1          I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   ~.;d'                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700

  ADAM A. HOUSE
    Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                              Thursday, April 24, 2025 - 6:00 PM
Ted Wood
                                             Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                    10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4                                       Board Room - Second Floor
John Costa                                             Mather, California
Board Vice President                                           &
Division 9
                                                      Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                    Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                      Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                           Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                     1i Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member             https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ1 Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d 1VWZz09
Division 1


Grant Goold
Board Member
                       The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D'Elman Clark          Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member
                       accommodations:
Division 8
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties




                                                                                                                                 P1
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                      THURSDAY, APRIL 24, 2025


►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the' Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro14live.saccounty.gov. Today's meeting replays at 2:00 p.m. on Sunday,
April 27, 2025, and again at 6:00 p.m. on Monday, April 28, 2025, on Metro Cable
Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand at
youtube.comlmetrocable 14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers' comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summaty minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                     _Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                              5
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of April 10, 2025.

2.     Adopt Resolution - Budget Amendment - MIH Program                           9
       Recommendation: Adopt Resolution to amend the Midyear Budget for Grants Fund
       212G for the Fiscal Year 2024/25.


                                                                                                                               P2
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                    THURSDAY, APRIL 24, 2025



PRESENTATION ITEMS:
1.    AMAROK Electrified Security Fence Systems                                                                          11
      (Keith Kaneko, VP of Government Relations, AMAROK, LLC)
      (Nick Avdis, Partner, Attorney, Avdis and Cucchi, LLP)
      Recommendation: Receive the presentation.

ACTION ITEMS:

1.    Adopt Resolution - Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee Charter                                               27
      (Marni Rittburg, Clerk of the Board & Ad Hoc Committee)
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution adopting the Independent Citizens'
      Oversight Committee (IOCC) Charter and authorize the Clerk of the Board to .
      advance the formation of the Committee accordingly.

REPORTS:

1.    PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                (President Wood)

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -               (Chief House)

             OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
             ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)
             SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

 3.   SMFD- FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT- (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
      522 Vice President)

4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
      Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

      A.     Executive Committee - (President Wood)
             Next Meeting: TBD

      B.     Communications Center JPA - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)
             Next Meeting: April 22 & May 13, 2025 at 9:00 AM
             SRFECC Annex - 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite B, Sacramento

      C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
             Next Meeting: May 22, 2025, at 5:30 PM


                                                                                                                          P3
                      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                      10545 Armstrong Ave. , Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (91 6) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                           THURSDAY, APRIL 24, 2025


         D.      Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
                 Next Meeting: May 8, 2025, at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matters:

1.       Pursuant to California Government Code 54957(a)
         Consultation with District Counsel and Cyber Security Manager

2.       CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL -ANTICIPATED LITIGATION -
         Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
         Section 54956.9 {b): One Case

              Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
              Brandy Scott v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              Gen~ral Counsel John Lavra & Board Clerk Marni Rittburg

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •   Regular Board Meeting - May 8, 2025, at 6:00 PM

Posted on April 21, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.




Clerk of the Board
** No written report
•IEJI Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arra ngements to
ensure accessibility.
                                                                                                                                 P4
