                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                                 ADOPTED
                  ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING
                               BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                       SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                   Thursday, April 24, 2025
                               Held at the following locations:
                           10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                      Mather, California
                                               &
                                     Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold, Jones, Saylors, Rice, Stark, and Wood. Board members absent:
  Director Webber. Staff present: Deputy Chief Wagaman and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  Two public comments were received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Goold seconded by Jones and carried unanimously by members present
  to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.      Action Summary Minutes
          Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
          of April 10, 2025.
          Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.      Adopt Resolution - Budget Amendment - MIH Program
          Recommendation: Adopt Resolution to amend the Midyear Budget for Grants Fund
          212G for the Fiscal Year 2024/25.
          Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-019.

  PRESENTATION ITEMS

  1.      AMAROK Electrified Security Fence Systems
          (Keith Kaneko, VP of Government Relations, AMAROK, LLC)
          (Nick Avdis, Partner, Attorney, Avdis and Cucchi, LLP)
          Recommendation: Receive the presentation.
      Action: Presentation received. Director Goold requested Metro Fire staff to present on
      this matter at the next Board meeting.

ACTION ITEMS:

1.    Adopt Resolution - Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee Charter
      (Marni Rittburg, Clerk of the Board & Ad Hoc Committee)
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution adopting the Independent Citizens' Oversight
      Committee (IOCC) Charter and authorize the Clerk of the Board to advance the
      formation of the Committee accordingly.
      Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-020, adopting the Independent Citizens'
      Oversight Committee Charter.

REPORTS

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

      No Report

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -        (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

Good evening, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public.

New Hire:
Please join me in welcoming Harmen Kahlon, hired for the position of Communications
Technician II in the Communications Division, effective April 2.
Harmen introduced himself to the Board .

New Hire:
Please join me in welcoming Jason Wanner, hired for the position of Logistics Technician in
the Logistics Division, effective April 1. Jason introduced himself to the Board and spoke
about his background .

Appointment- Fire Marshal:

Congratulations to Amy Nygren for being appointed to Fire Marshal in the Community Risk
Reduction Division, effective April 21, 2025. Deputy Chief Wagaman pinned Fire Marshal
Nygren's badge and administered the oath of office.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

Shift Commander Spotlight:
Deputy Chief Mitchell introduced B Shift Commander Mike Johnson, who recognized Chief
Ryan Pitman's 20 years of service. Chief Pitman spoke on his experience at Metro Fire.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)

COMMUNITY RELATIONS DIVISION
  • On April 2, in collaboration with crews from Stations 24 and 25, the American
    Red Cross, CRRD, and CERT, we engaged with 110 homeowners at the Sierra
    Meadows Mobile Home Park.
4.24.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 2 of 6
          o   Installed 234 smoke alarms
          o   Installed 71 carbon monoxide alarms
          o   Distributed 68 nightlights for fall prevention
   •   Distributed our Spring Newsletter - Metro Fire Scene - looking for feedback or
       content ideas from the board of directors
   •   In the process of accepting 80 kids to attend FIRE CAMP, which is scheduled
       for June 17-20, and looking forward to another successful year

HUMAN RESOURCES
  • Captains Promotional Written Exam was held on April 11, 2025
       o Assessments: May 5-8, 2025

BACKGROUNDS
  • 1 Fire Mechanic - date of hire 05/01/2025
  • 2 MIH Providers
  • 1 Fire Investigator
  • 1 Fire Inspector
  • 10 Reserve Firefighters
  • 18EMTs

TRAINING
  • Fire Academy 25-1 starts on Monday, April 21st, with 12 Recruits and 2 lateral
     Firefighters.

FINANCE

   FY 25/26 POSITION REQUESTS:
   •   The Finance Division has been busy preparing next year's preliminary budget.
       As you're aware, the budget is comprised of three major components:
          o Wages and benefits,
          o Services and supplies
          o Capital projects.

          Highlights of some of the work happening in these areas:

          a. Wages and Benefits: For the purposes of the budget, wages and benefits
             include new position requests. As you will recall, a couple of meetings ago, Jeff
             Frye did a presentation on the Position Request Forms and the associated
             process. Following that presentation, you provided two directions to staff: the
             first was to stop the strategic planning effort and focus on this year's staffing
             needs. The second was to include labor in the discussions.

              Tonight, I want to update you on the process briefly and where we are. The
              Position Request Form was created to request new positions, consider
              reclassifications, or evaluate adjustments to compensation. Budget managers
              submitted requests for 69 positions. 30 of the positions are carryovers from FY
              24/25. The total estimated cost of these requests is approximately $18 million.

              Staff has met with Labor, and jointly we looked at the requests and prioritized
              them. As the process moves towards final recommendations for inclusion in the

4.24.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 3 of 6
                FY 25/26 budget there will be continued discussion, including additional
                meetings with Labor, that will lead up to the preliminary budget presentation to
                the Finance Committee on May 22nd and a full budget presentation being made
                to the Board on June 12th.

             b. Services and Supplies: The Executive Team has met with all of the budget
                officers, and the finance team is compiling the budget requests for further
                discussion.

             c. Capital Projects: At the Last Board meeting, Jeff and Erin presented the
                preliminary capital project list. Now, the focus will turn to preparing the legal
                documents for the first Measure O bond issuance. The project team has been
                assembled, and they continue to move forward with the process.

SUPPORT SERIVES - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)
Fleet:
         •   Four squads have arrived with equipment installations underway
         •   Two remount ambulances have arrived, outfitted and ready for service
         •   Two support vehicles have arrived which will be assigned to air operations
         •   Two support vehicle have arrived which will be assigned to the Safety Health and
             Wellness Division

IT/Comms:
      • Two squads have been out-fitted with emergency communication equipment
      • Beginning to rollout 60 new Mobile Data Tablets (MOT's) replacing the older style
        Mobile Data Computers
      • New server equipment has arrived with install scheduled soon

Facilities:
        • Upgrading the audio/video equipment in training room 2 to mirror training room 1
        • Station privacy project continues with station 55 now completed
        • Work has begun repair the Zinfandel training site gate in preparation of an increase
            in traffic due to construction
         • A job walk for janitorial services occurred two weeks ago with 12 vendors in
            attendance. RFPs were just received by 10 vendors. Evaluations will occur next
            week. We hope to identify our next janitorial service provider soon
         • A new HVAC system along with new attic insulation is getting installed at station 22
         • Next phase of the station flooring project beginning soon at stations 31, 108 and 53

CRRD/Arson:

         •   To fill a current Fire Investigator vacancy, a conditional job offer is pending after
             interviewing 16 candid ates.

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
    Captain Sean Scollard reported we've had some productive meetings lately, as mentioned
    in some of the reports this evening. Got an invite to speak on day two at the 25-1
    Academy. I recently gave a presentation at the Captains Academy on union items, which
    was well received. Congratulations to the new hires and to Fire Marshal Amy Nygren on

4.24.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                         Page 4 of 6
     her promotion. Thank you to the 300+ members who came out to the capital from up and
     down the state to show support for PEPRA Reform that is making its way through the
     different channels. Lastly, I wanted to highlight the collaboration with the Wellness
     Division, Assistant Chief Peck, and Captain Randall. We have a meeting scheduled to
     discuss Volunteer Fire Foundation, which is a non-profit based out of Sonoma that does
     glutathione treatment. We are turning over every stone to try to provide benefits to all
     members.

4.      COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
        All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
        10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

        A.      Executive Committee - (President Wood)

                 No Report

        B.      Communications Center JPA - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)
                 The Communication Center JPA Board last met on April 22, 2025. This was the
                 inaugural meeting held at their new administrative annex. During that meeting
                 the Board supported Staff's recommendation to approve a 3-year MOU
                 between SRFECC and Local 522.

        C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
                 Met this evening and received the Bimonthly fiscal report through February
                 2025.

        D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)

                 No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Rice stated that something that has really struck him over the last two years is that
all the staff that has come before us have nothing but positive things to say about the crews
they lead, and that sets a great tone. Director Rice and President Wood requested that staff
bring a presentation to the next Board meeting on the unsecured mental health calls, we
need staff to come up with a solution.

Director Clark thanked the men and women of Metro Fire and congratulated Fire Marshal
Amy Nygren on her promotion.

Director Goold asked when we can expect to expand some services that wellness, health,
and safety provide to our members' families. Would like to do my annual call out to someone
who has deep pockets who can sponsor all 80 of the kids that will come to fire camp,
especially to those who cannot afford it. I'm completely behind Director Rice on the mental
health call responses, and I'm worried about those calls going wrong. Also, how much are
we discussing this with our communities? I have full faith that we have great people involved,
and maybe we need the support of the community behind us.

President Wood welcomed the new hires and congratulated Fire Marshal Amy Nygren on her
promotion. The Firefighters Burn Institute has a huge fundraising event called Luau on the

4.24.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                         Page 5 of 6
Links on Saturday, May 31, 2025, at The Pavilion at Haggin Oaks, and they need volunteers.
Please go to https://ffburn.org/ for more information and to purchase tickets.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 7:22 p.m. on the following matters:

1.    Pursuant to California Government Code 54957(a)
      Consultation with District Counsel and Cyber Security Manager
2.    CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL-ANTICIPATED LITIGATION -
      Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
      Section 54956.9 (b): One Case

          Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
          Brandy Scott v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          General Counsel John Lavra & Board Clerk Marni Rittburg
      Action: Moved by Goold, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by members
      present to deny the 910 Claim.

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened to open session at 7:55 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
the Board met in closed session on two items: 1. Consultation with District Counsel and
Cyber Security Manager, no reportable action. 2. 910 Claim of Brandy Scott v. Sacramento
Metropolitan Fire District, the Board voted unanimously to deny the claim and turn the claim
over to the District's liability pool for defense and further handling.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2025-04-24-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 7:56 p.m.



Ted Wood, Board President                           Robert Webber, Secretary



Marni Rittburg, C
Board Clerk




4.24.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                 Page 6 of 6
