Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m. ***REVISED***
Tuesday, February 21, 2023

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the regular meeting to order at 6:34 p.m. Other Board members
present: Bina Lefkovitz, Mariana Corona Sabeniano (arrived at 6:38 p.m.), Joanne Ahola,
Alfred Brown, Harold Fong, and Heather Davis.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Deputy
Superintendent Nancy Herota; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate Superintendent
Nick Schweizer; Assistant Superintendents Brent Malicote and Jacqueline White; Executive
Directors Michael Kast, Xanthi Soriano, and Jerry Jones; and Executive Assistant Wende
Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Davis led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

There were no public comments.

B. Employee Organizations

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of January 17, 2023 by
   Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Not present at vote: Corona Sabeniano

4. Adoption of Agenda




02.21.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             1
A. Motion by Trustee Fong to rearrange the order of the agenda to hear Item 10.B. Fortune
   Countywide Charter School Annual Report after Item 6.A. Superintendents Report and
   adopt the rearranged agenda, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Not present at vote: Corona Sabeniano

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

STUDENT EVENTS (COUNTYWIDE)
The 2023 Academic Decathlon took place on February 4 at Folsom High School, where 14
teams competed at the Super Quiz. Folsom High School took first place, followed by Bella
Vista in second, and Vista del Lago in third. Folsom High School and Bella Vista will
represent Sacramento County at the state contest in April.

The 2023 Gordon D. Schaber Mock Trial competition went very well. We had 20 schools, 380
students, and 132 attorneys and judges involved. Sacramento Country Day took first place,
Elk Grove High School came in second, and Del Campo High School came in third.

The 2023 Gordon D. Schaber Moot Court competition is going well. We have six schools and
75 students participating. Our final round and awards will be held on February 28 at the 3rd
District Court of Appeal.

The Poetry Out Loud program is taking place at Rosemont High on February 23. And, lastly,
March 4 is Sacramento History Day at Inderkum High School. You are all welcome to attend
any, or all, of these events.

CTE PROGRAMS (COUNTYWIDE)
Our College and Career Readiness team is preparing for two spring break culinary camps for
students in grades 6 through 8 to be held March 13 through the 17 and the first week of April.
Students will learn about careers in cooking, diverse cuisine, kitchen smarts, and food
innovations. The program is free, and training is with culinary professionals. This unique
culinary program will conclude with a special new sandwich pitch (a.k.a. the Bocadillo
Innovation pitch) where they create and present a sandwich idea to the chefs for feedback.
Cash prizes will be awarded to the top teams.

SCOE STUDENT OPPORTUNITIES
This Spring, our Community Schools and El Centro will be hosting Bite of Reality (Budget
Cents) fairs for SCOE students. SCOE is partnering with SAFE Credit Union to host these
financial literacy simulation fairs. Please contact Wende Watson if you are interested in
attending any of these fairs scheduled for late March, mid-April, and May.

02.21.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                               2
DEI AND OUTREACH
On February 16, representatives from SCOE attended the Diversity, Belonging, and Inclusion
at Work networking event sponsored by UC Davis Internship and Career Center (ICC) and
the Office of Campus Community Relations/Diversity, Equity & Inclusion. This event
highlighted organizations with effective Employee Resource Groups and a proven
commitment to diversity and inclusion. The goal was to help UC Davis students develop
connections with professionals who could provide career clarity and build professional
networks while maintaining their intersectional identities in the workplace. Thank you, Channa
Cook, for helping arrange the visit and to staff who took time to represent SCOE and recruit
talent.

SCOE RECRUITMENT
Speaking of recruitment, SCOE has partnered with the Tulare County Office of Education to
host the first-ever regionwide certificated and classified recruitment fair for Northern California
on March 18. Approximately 50 agencies representing Sacramento County school districts
and many other LEAs from across northern California will participate. SCOE will have booths
representing the School of Education and SCOE Personnel to recruit for certificated and
classified opportunities. Additional media and marketing outreach from Communications will
feature mental health clinician openings and special education certificated and classified
positions.

SPRING CONVENINGS
Three large convenings will take place this March. On March 1, SCOE will host the California
Dyslexia Initiative Spring Professional Learning Network featuring a variety of fabulous
presenters and experts in their field of supporting students with reading difficulties and
dyslexia. Dr. Tracy Weeden, President, and CEO of the Neuhaus Education Center will
deliver her keynote address titled, “Literacy Is a Human Right of the 21st Century.” On March
23 and 24, SCOE will host the Counselor Spring Institute at Sacramento State University. It is
a professional development opportunity to support approximately 150 school counselors in
our County. Sessions and keynote speakers will address the areas of Academics, College
and Career, and SEL which are the strands of the American School Counselor Association
(ASCA). Some of the sessions will be delivered by SCOE experts: Mai Xi Lee, Mary Reed,
Dwight Harvey, Veronica Ruiz, Lindsay Cathcart, Amber Jacobo, Cathy White, Chris
Williams, Daniel Cisneros, Michelle McIntosh, and more. On March 29, SCOE will welcome
the Spring convening of the California Early Literacy Professional Learning Network through
the Early Literacy Support Block Grant. SCOE is leading this effort by supporting the 70
schools in the grant in the development and implementation of literacy instruction and support
programs, particularly focused on literacy in the early grades, resulting in improved student
outcomes in grades TK/K-3.

SCOE AND THE ENVIRONMENT
Online, the Coalition for Clean Air published a story on how students are creating change by
highlighting their sensor studies for policy makers. Amy Kraft was quoted saying that SCOE
has plans to make its air quality kits available to other Expanded Learning programs to
provide more students with the opportunity to learn about the air around them. Ms. Kraft is
also looking for ways to integrate the air quality kits in outdoor education programming at the
River Bend Outdoor Education Site, an acclaimed program by many, to monitor and analyze

02.21.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                                   3
air quality in open spaces surrounded by housing developments.

INVITATION TO THE SOFIA
On the evening of March 16, the Friends of Sacramento Arts will be hosting “Heroes of Arts”
to recognize several arts teachers representing six or more of the 13 districts in Sacramento
County as outstanding arts educators and several others. The is at the Sofia on Capitol
Avenue in Sacramento and Board Members are invited to attend.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White/Michael
   Kast

Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White announced that 5 students will be awarded
diplomas, including 2 candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. Senior Extension; 2
candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School, and 1 candidate from Elinor Lincoln Hickey
Jr./Sr. High School.

D. Approval of the 2021-2022 School Accountability Report Cards for Court and Community
Schools and Special Education Programs- Jacqueline White/Michael Kast

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts and
Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget – David
W. Gordon

A. No Grant Applications/Service Contracts

10. New Business - Other

A. California School Boards Association Delegate Assembly Election Ballot - David W.
   Gordon

02.21.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                                  4
Motion by Trustee Ahola for the Board to cast its ballot for the representatives, Kara
Lofthouse, a trustee from Folsom-Cordova USD, and Cindy Quiralte, a trustee from Natomas
USD, to CSBA's Delegate Assembly for Subregion 6-B, second by Trustee Corona
Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

B. Fortune Countywide Charter School Annual Report - Teresa Stinson (with Revised
   Attachment)

SCOE General Counsel Teresa Stinson introduced Nancy Brownell, Educational Consultant,
who presented the Fortune Countywide Charter Annual Report.

A report and updates were also presented by Margaret Fortune, President and CEO, Joseph
Gambino, Fortune's Director of Education Technology; Wesley Pepper, Chief Academic
Officer; Dominic Zarecki, Director of Data, Analytics, and Strategy, and Sara Williams,
Director of Curriculum and Instruction.

Several Fortune Charter School Students and families were present and invited to share
stories of their experiences at the school.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Fong referenced a book he is reading, Making Americans by Jessica Lander and
how certain people groups were excluded from entering the United States. He commented
that ships full of people were blocked due to prejudices and racism.

Trustee Davis commented that her daughter volunteers at the Museum of Science and
Curiosity (MOSAC) and she stated that she is happy that SCOE supported the MOSAC.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano – no report.

Trustee Lefkovitz provided highlights from the February 16, 2023 Curriculum Committee
meeting.

Trustee Brown read a poem entitled The House by the Side of the Road by Sam Walter Foss.

Trustee Ahola noted that the Fortune Annual Report was scheduled during Black History
Month and appreciated the timing.

B. Board President

President Keefer read a poem entitled Dark Path Bright Future by G.E., a student at El
Centro.

02.21.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           5
C. Committees - no reports

12. Items for Distribution

A. February/March Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. March 7, 2023 and March 21, 2023

14. Adjournment

A. Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

The meeting adjourned at 8:40 p.m.




02.21.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                    6
