                      Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
                        2021-2022 School Accountability Report Card
                        (Published During the 2022-2023 School Year)

                                                       -------
2022 School Accountability Report Card
General Information about the School Accountability Report Card (SARC)
SARC Overview                            By February 1 of each year, every school in California is required by state law to
                                         publish a School Accountability Report Card (SARC). The SARC contains
                                         information about the condition and performance of each California public school.
                                         Under the Local Control Funding Formula (LCFF) all local educational agencies
                                         (LEAs) are required to prepare a Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP),
                                         which describes how they intend to meet annual school-specific goals for all pupils,
                                         with specific activities to address state and local priorities. Additionally, data
                                         reported in an LCAP is to be consistent with data reported in the SARC.

                                         For more information about SARC requirements and access to prior year reports,
                                         see the California Department of Education (CDE) SARC web page at
                                         https://www.cde.ca.gov/ta/ac/sa/

                                         For more information about the LCFF or the LCAP, see the CDE LCFF web page
                                         at https://www.cde.ca.gov/fg/aa/lc/

                                         For additional information about the school, parents/guardians and community
                                         members should contact the school principal or the district office.

DataQuest                                DataQuest is an online data tool located on the CDE DataQuest web page at
                                         https://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional information about this
                                         school and comparisons of the school to the district and the county. Specifically,
                                         DataQuest is a dynamic system that provides reports for accountability (e.g., test
                                         data, enrollment, high school graduates, dropouts, course enrollments, staffing,
                                         and data regarding English learners).

California School Dashboard              The California School Dashboard (Dashboard)
                                         https://www.caschooldashboard.org/ reflects California’s new accountability and
                                         continuous improvement system and provides information about how LEAs and
                                         schools are meeting the needs of California’s diverse student population. The
                                         Dashboard contains reports that display the performance of LEAs, schools, and
                                         student groups on a set of state and local measures to assist in identifying
                                         strengths, challenges, and areas in need of improvement.
Internet Access                          Internet access is available at public libraries and other locations that are publicly
                                         accessible (e.g., the California State Library). Access to the Internet at libraries and
                                         public locations is generally provided on a first-come, first-served basis. Other use
                                         restrictions may include the hours of operation, the length of time that a workstation
                                         may be used (depending on availability), the types of software programs available
                                         on a workstation, and the ability to print documents.




2022 School Accountability Report Card               Page 1 of 21                           Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
2022-23 School Contact Information
2022-23 School Contact Information

 School Name                             Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
 Street                                  2040 Ethan Way
 City, State, Zip                        Sacramento, CA 95825
 Phone Number                            916-228-2020
 Principal                               Lauren Roth
 Email Address                           lroth@scoe.net
 School Website
 County-District-School (CDS) Code 34-10348-0106229

2022-23 District Contact Information
2022-23 District Contact Information

 District Name                           Sacramento County Office of Education (SCOE)
 Phone Number                            (916) 228-2500
 Superintendent                          David W. Gordon
 Email Address                           dgordon@scoe.net
 District Website Address                www.scoe.net

2022-23 School Overview
2022-23 School Overview
 Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School provides education to students with disabilities with mental health and behavioral needs.
 Our program meets the unique educational, behavioral, and mental health needs of our students and offers a range of services
 that promote a positive learning environment. Students are referred directly from the local school districts of Sacramento
 County that are unable to provide the more highly structured behavioral support program as well as vocational opportunities.
 During the 2020-2021 school year, school psychologists provided Educationally Related Mental Health Services (ERMHS). In
 addition, students were provided a standards-based educational program that was supported by a strong career technical
 emphasis. The Leo A. Palmiter program is divided into three Linked Learning Pathways: Discovery Academy (pre-vocational
 skills for grades 7-8), Culinary Arts, and Sustainable Environments Academies (grades 9-12). Each Linked Learning Pathway
 connects core academics with real-world experience within various fields. Coursework is coordinated with the Career
 Technical Education (CTE) programs, such as Culinary Arts and Hospitality, Horticulture, and Northern California Construction
 Training (NCCT).--------




2022 School Accountability Report Card                    Page 2 of 21                       Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
About this School
2022-23 Student Enrollment by Grade Level
2021-22 Student Enrollment by Grade Level

             Grade Level                                                  Number of Students
 Grade 7                                                                            2
 Grade 8                                                                            3
 Grade 9                                                                            5
 Grade 10                                                                           4
 Grade 11                                                                           5
 Grade 12                                                                          16
 Total Enrollment                                                                  35

2022-23 Student Enrollment by Student Group
2021-22 Student Enrollment by Student Group

            Student Group                                             Percent of Total Enrollment
 Female                                                                            17.1
 Male                                                                              82.9
 American Indian or Alaska Native                                                  0.0
 Asian                                                                             0.0
 Black or African American                                                         25.7
 Filipino                                                                          0.0
 Hispanic or Latino                                                                17.1
 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander                                               0.0
 Two or More Races                                                                 2.9
 White                                                                             34.3
 English Learners                                                                  2.9
 Foster Youth                                                                      2.9
 Homeless                                                                          20.0
 Migrant                                                                           0.0
 Socioeconomically Disadvantaged                                                   68.6
 Students with Disabilities                                                       100.0


A. Conditions of Learning (State Priority: Basic)
A. Conditions of Learning State Priority: Basic
                                         The SARC provides the following information relevant to the State priority: Basic
                                         (Priority 1):

                                         •   Degree to which teachers are appropriately assigned and fully credentialed in the
                                             subject area and for the pupils they are teaching;
                                         •   Pupils have access to standards-aligned instructional materials; and
                                         •   School facilities are maintained in good repair


2022 School Accountability Report Card                    Page 3 of 21                         Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
2020-21 Teacher Preparation and Placement
2020-21 Teacher Preparation and Placement

                                                   School        School        District      District       State         State
          Authorization/Assignment
                                                   Number        Percent       Number        Percent       Number        Percent
 Fully (Preliminary or Clear) Credentialed
 for Subject and Student Placement                   5.00         62.50         107.70        71.67       228366.10       83.12
 (properly assigned)
 Intern Credential Holders Properly
                                                     0.00          0.00          9.50          6.34        4205.90         1.53
 Assigned
 Teachers Without Credentials and
 Misassignments (“ineffective” under                 0.00          0.00          6.10          4.10        11216.70        4.08
 ESSA)
 Credentialed Teachers Assigned Out-of-
                                                     0.00          0.00         13.60          9.10        12115.80        4.41
 Field (“out-of-field” under ESSA)
 Unknown                                             3.00         37.50         13.10          8.77        18854.30        6.86
 Total Teaching Positions                            8.00         100.00        150.30        100.00      274759.10       100.00

 Note: The data in this table is based on Full Time Equivalent (FTE) status. One FTE equals one staff member working full time;
 one FTE could also represent two staff members who each work 50 percent of full time. Additionally, an assignment is defined as
 a position that an educator is assigned based on setting, subject, and grade level. An authorization is defined as the services that
 an educator is authorized to provide to students.
2021-22 Teacher Preparation and Placement
2021-22 Teacher Preparation and Placement

                                                   School        School        District      District       State         State
          Authorization/Assignment
                                                   Number        Percent       Number        Percent       Number        Percent
 Fully (Preliminary or Clear) Credentialed
 for Subject and Student Placement
 (properly assigned)
 Intern Credential Holders Properly
 Assigned
 Teachers Without Credentials and
 Misassignments (“ineffective” under
 ESSA)
 Credentialed Teachers Assigned Out-of-
 Field (“out-of-field” under ESSA)
 Unknown
 Total Teaching Positions

2021-22 data was not included as part of the initial release of data on 1/13/23. The CDE has indicated that the data will be
available after the 2/1/23 SARC deadline. The data will be populated when it is published by the CDE.

Note: The data in this table is based on Full-Time Equivalent (FTE) status. One FTE equals one staff member working full time;
one FTE could also represent two staff members who each work 50 percent of full time. Additionally, an assignment is defined as
a position that an educator is assigned based on setting, subject, and grade level. An authorization is defined as the services that
an educator is authorized to provide to students.




2022 School Accountability Report Card                      Page 4 of 21                         Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
Teachers Without Credentials and Misassignments (considered “ineffective” under ESSA)
Teachers Without Credentials and Misassignments (considered “ineffective” under ESSA)

                           Authorization/Assignment                                       2020-21                 2021-22
 Permits and Waivers                                                                        0.00
 Misassignments                                                                             0.00
 Vacant Positions                                                                           0.00
 Total Teachers Without Credentials and Misassignments                                      0.00

2021-22 data was not included as part of the initial release of data on 1/13/23. The CDE has indicated that the data will be
available after the 2/1/23 SARC deadline. The data will be populated when it is published by the CDE.


Credentialed Teachers Assigned Out-of-Field (considered “out-of-field” under ESSA)
Credentialed Teachers Assigned Out-of-Field (considered “out-of-field” under ESSA)

                                     Indicator                                            2020-21                 2021-22
 Credentialed Teachers Authorized on a Permit or Waiver                                     0.00
 Local Assignment Options                                                                   0.00
 Total Out-of-Field Teachers                                                                0.00

2021-22 data was not included as part of the initial release of data on 1/13/23. The CDE has indicated that the data will be
available after the 2/1/23 SARC deadline. The data will be populated when it is published by the CDE.


Class Assignments
2021-22 Class Assignments

                                     Indicator                                            2020-21                 2021-22
 Misassignments for English Learners
 (a percentage of all the classes with English learners taught by teachers that are         0.00
 misassigned)
 No credential, permit or authorization to teach
 (a percentage of all the classes taught by teachers with no record of an                   0.00
 authorization to teach)

2021-22 data was not included as part of the initial release of data on 1/13/23. The CDE has indicated that the data will be
available after the 2/1/23 SARC deadline. The data will be populated when it is published by the CDE.

Note: For more information refer to the Updated Teacher Equity Definitions web page at
https://www.cde.ca.gov/pd/ee/teacherequitydefinitions.asp.




2022 School Accountability Report Card                     Page 5 of 21                        Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
2022-23 Quality, Currency, Availability of Textbooks and Other Instructional Materials
2022-23 Quality, Currency, Availability of Textbooks and Other Instructional Materials

 The quality, currency, and availability of the standards-aligned textbooks and other instructional materials used at the school
 are sufficient in each of the core curriculum areas:

      •    Reading/Language Arts
      •    Mathematics
      •    Science
      •    History-Social Science
      •    Health
      •    Visual and Performing Arts

 Each student is provided the appropriate textbook and instructional material in all of the core areas.


 Year and month in which the data were collected                                                  August 2021


                                                                                                            From       Percent
                                                                                                            Most       Students
                                           Textbooks and Other Instructional Materials/year of
               Subject                                                                                     Recent    Lacking Own
                                                              Adoption
                                                                                                          Adoption    Assigned
                                                                                                              ?          Copy
 Reading/Language Arts                  Adopted 06/2016:                                                    Yes           0
                                            • SpringBoard (CollegeBoard),
                                            • Inside/Edge (National Geographic
                                                Learning/Cengage Learning),
                                            • Read 180 (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Intervention)

 Mathematics                            Adopted 06/2015:                                                    Yes           0
                                            • California Math (McGraw Hill),
                                            • Integrated High School Math 1, 2, 3 (Pearson)

 Science                                Adopted 08/2008:                                                    Yes           0
                                            • Physical Science (Glencoe),
                                            • Earth Science (AGS),
                                            • Life Science (Glencoe)
                                            • Life Science (AGS)
                                            • Biology: Cycles of Life (Pearson Publishing/AGS)
                                            • Physical Science (Pearson Publishing/AGS)
                                            • Pacemaker Biology (Pearson Publishing/AGS)
                                            • Concepts and Challenges in Life, Earth and
                                                Physical Sciences (Pearson/AGS)

 History-Social Science                 Adopted May 2018                                                    Yes           0
                                            • Discovering Our Past: A History of the United
                                                States, Early Years (McGraw Hill-Networks)
                                            • Discovering Our Past: A History of the World, Early
                                                Ages (McGraw Hill-Networks)
                                            • Discovering Our Past: A History of the United
                                                States (McGraw Hill-Networks)
                                            • United States History and Geography (McGraw
                                                Hill-Networks)
                                            • United States History and Geography, Modern
                                                Times (McGraw Hill-Networks)
                                            • United States Government: Our Democracy
                                                (McGraw Hill-Networks)
                                            • Understanding Economics (McGraw Hill-Networks)

2022 School Accountability Report Card                      Page 6 of 21                         Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
School Facility Conditions and Planned Improvements
School Facility Conditions and Planned Improvements
 Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School meets current building codes for safety. Facilities inspections are ongoing and custodial services
 are provided to ensure a healthy environment for students and staff. During the Summer of 2012, this school site underwent
 modernization that included replacement of windows, lighting, flooring, cabinetry, HVAC equipment, paint, signal systems, and
 updates to meet current Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) codes. Classrooms and restrooms are adapted and equipped to
 meet the students’ needs. Teachers and classroom staff are provided with supplies that enable them to have a healthy
 environment. The facilities at Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School have met all ongoing inspections and are in good repair.

 Year and month of the most recent FIT report                                                 September 2022

                                                   Rate Rate Rate
                 System Inspected                                            Repair Needed and Action Taken or Planned
                                                   Good Fair Poor
 Systems:                                             X
 Gas Leaks, Mechanical/HVAC, Sewer
 Interior:                                            X
 Interior Surfaces
 Cleanliness:                                         X
 Overall Cleanliness, Pest/Vermin Infestation
 Electrical                                           X

 Restrooms/Fountains:                                 X
 Restrooms, Sinks/ Fountains
 Safety:                                              X
 Fire Safety, Hazardous Materials
 Structural:                                          X
 Structural Damage, Roofs
 External:                                            X
 Playground/School Grounds, Windows/
 Doors/Gates/Fences

Overall Facility Rate
Overall Facility Rate

              Exemplary                         Good                             Fair                          Poor

                 X


B. Pupil Outcomes (State Priority: Pupil Achievement)




2022 School Accountability Report Card                    Page 7 of 21                         Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
B. Pupil Outcomes                   State Priority: Pupil Achievement
                                    The SARC provides the following information relevant to the State priority: Pupil Achievement
                                    (Priority 4):

                                    Statewide Assessments
                                    (i.e., California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress [CAASPP] System
                                    includes the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments for students in the general
                                    education population and the California Alternate Assessments [CAAs] for English language
                                    arts/literacy [ELA] and mathematics given in grades three through eight and grade eleven.
                                    Only eligible students may participate in the administration of the CAAs. CAAs items are
                                    aligned with alternate achievement standards, which are linked with the Common Core State
                                    Standards [CCSS] for students with the most significant cognitive disabilities).

                                    The CAASPP System encompasses the following assessments and student participation
                                    requirements:

                                    1. Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments and CAAs for ELA in grades three
                                       through eight and grade eleven.
                                    2. Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments and CAAs for mathematics in grades
                                       three through eight and grade eleven.
                                    3. California Science Test (CAST) and CAAs for Science in grades five, eight, and once
                                       in high school (i.e., grade ten, eleven, or twelve).
                                    4. College and Career Ready
                                       The percentage of students who have successfully completed courses that satisfy the
                                       requirements for entrance to the University of California and the California State
                                       University, or career technical education sequences or programs of study.



                                    SARC Reporting in the 2020-2021 School Year Only
                                    Where the most viable option, LEAs were required to administer the statewide summative
                                    assessment in ELA and mathematics. Where a statewide summative assessment was not
                                    the most viable option for the LEA (or for one or more grade-level[s] within the LEA) due to
                                    the pandemic, LEAs were allowed to report results from a different assessment that met the
                                    criteria established by the State Board of Education (SBE) on March 16, 2021. The
                                    assessments were required to be:

                                         •   Aligned with CA CCSS for ELA and mathematics;
                                         •   Available to students in grades 3 through 8, and grade 11; and
                                         •   Uniformly administered across a grade, grade span, school, or district to all eligible
                                             students.

                                    Options
                                    Note that the CAAs could only be administered in-person following health and safety
                                    requirements. If it was not viable for the LEA to administer the CAAs in person with health
                                    and safety guidelines in place, the LEA was directed to not administer the tests. There were
                                    no other assessment options available for the CAAs. Schools administered the Smarter
                                    Balanced Summative Assessments for ELA and mathematics, other assessments that meet
                                    the SBE criteria, or a combination of both, and they could only choose one of the following:

                                         •   Smarter Balanced ELA and mathematics summative assessments;
                                         •   Other assessments meeting the SBE criteria; or
                                         •   Combination of Smarter Balanced ELA and mathematics summative assessments
                                             and other assessments.

                                    The percentage of students who have successfully completed courses that satisfy the
                                    requirements for entrance to the University of California and the California State University,
                                    or career technical education sequences or programs of study.



2022 School Accountability Report Card                   Page 8 of 21                          Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
Percentage of Students Meeting or Exceeding the State Standard on CAASPP
Percentage of Students Meeting or Exceeding the State Standard on CAASPP

This table displays CAASPP test results in ELA and mathematics for all students grades three through eight and grade eleven
taking and completing a state-administered assessment.

The 2020-21 data cells have N/A values because these data are not comparable to other year data due to the COVID-19 pandemic
during the 2020-21 school year. Where the CAASPP assessments in ELA and/or mathematics is not the most viable option, the
LEAs were allowed to administer local assessments. Therefore, the 2020-21 data between school years for the school, district,
state are not an accurate comparison. As such, it is inappropriate to compare results of the 2020-21 school year to other school
years.

Percentages are not calculated when the number of students tested is ten or less, either because the number of students in this
category is too small for statistical accuracy or to protect student privacy.

ELA and mathematics test results include the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessment and the CAA. The “Percent Met or
Exceeded” is calculated by taking the total number of students who met or exceeded the standard on the Smarter Balanced
Summative Assessment plus the total number of students who met the standard (i.e., achieved Level 3-Alternate) on the CAAs
divided by the total number of students who participated in both assessments.
                                                 School        School       District     District       State         State
                   Subject
                                                 2020-21       2021-22      2020-21      2021-22       2020-21       2021-22
 English Language Arts/Literacy                    N/A             0          N/A           24           N/A           47
 (grades 3-8 and 11)
 Mathematics                                       N/A             0          N/A           17           N/A           33
 (grades 3-8 and 11)




2022 School Accountability Report Card                     Page 9 of 21                      Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
2021-22 CAASPP Test Results in ELA by Student Group
2021-22 CAASPP Test Results in ELA by Student Group

This table displays CAASPP test results in ELA by student group for students grades three through eight and grade eleven taking
and completing a state-administered assessment.

ELA test results include the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessment and the CAA. The “Percent Met or Exceeded” is calculated
by taking the total number of students who met or exceeded the standard on the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessment plus
the total number of students who met the standard (i.e., achieved Level 3-Alternate) on the CAAs divided by the total number of
students who participated in both assessments.

Double dashes (--) appear in the table when the number of students is ten or less, either because the number of students in this
category is too small for statistical accuracy or to protect student privacy.

The number of students tested includes all students who participated in the test whether they received a score or not; however,
the number of students tested is not the number that was used to calculate the achievement level percentages. The achievement
level percentages are calculated using only students who received scores.
                                                                                                                    CAASPP
                                                        CAASPP           CAASPP       CAASPP         CAASPP
                     CAASPP                                                                                          Percent
                                                         Total           Number       Percent        Percent
                  Student Groups                                                                                      Met or
                                                       Enrollment         Tested       Tested       Not Tested
                                                                                                                    Exceeded
 All Students                                               17             NT            NT              NT             NT
 Female                                                     --             NT            NT              NT             NT
 Male                                                       15             NT            NT              NT             NT
 American Indian or Alaska Native                           0               0           0.00            0.00           0.00
 Asian                                                      0               0           0.00            0.00           0.00
 Black or African American                                  --             NT            NT              NT             NT
 Filipino                                                   0               0           0.00            0.00           0.00
 Hispanic or Latino                                         --             NT            NT              NT             NT
 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander                        0               0           0.00            0.00           0.00
 Two or More Races                                          --             NT            NT              NT             NT
 White                                                      --             NT            NT              NT             NT
 English Learners                                           --             NT            NT              NT             NT
 Foster Youth                                               0               0           0.00            0.00           0.00
 Homeless                                                   0               0           0.00            0.00           0.00
 Military                                                   0               0           0.00            0.00           0.00
 Socioeconomically Disadvantaged                            --             NT            NT              NT             NT
 Students Receiving Migrant Education Services              0               0           0.00            0.00           0.00
 Students with Disabilities                                 14             NT            NT              NT             NT




2022 School Accountability Report Card                   Page 10 of 21                         Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
2021-22 CAASPP Test Results in Math by Student Group
2021-22 CAASPP Test Results in Math by Student Group

This table displays CAASPP test results in Math by student group for students grades three through eight and grade eleven taking
and completing a state-administered assessment.

Mathematics test results include the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessment and the CAA. The “Percent Met or Exceeded” is
calculated by taking the total number of students who met or exceeded the standard on the Smarter Balanced Summative
Assessment plus the total number of students who met the standard (i.e., achieved Level 3-Alternate) on the CAAs divided by the
total number of students who participated in both assessments.

Double dashes (--) appear in the table when the number of students is ten or less, either because the number of students in this
category is too small for statistical accuracy or to protect student privacy.

The number of students tested includes all students who participated in the test whether they received a score or not; however,
the number of students tested is not the number that was used to calculate the achievement level percentages. The achievement
level percentages are calculated using only students who received scores.
                                                                                                                    CAASPP
                                                        CAASPP           CAASPP       CAASPP         CAASPP
                     CAASPP                                                                                          Percent
                                                         Total           Number       Percent        Percent
                  Student Groups                                                                                      Met or
                                                       Enrollment         Tested       Tested       Not Tested
                                                                                                                    Exceeded
 All Students                                               17             NT            NT              NT             NT
 Female                                                     --             NT            NT              NT             NT
 Male                                                       15             NT            NT              NT             NT
 American Indian or Alaska Native                           0               0           0.00            0.00           0.00
 Asian                                                      0               0           0.00            0.00           0.00
 Black or African American                                  --             NT            NT              NT             NT
 Filipino                                                   0               0           0.00            0.00           0.00
 Hispanic or Latino                                         --             NT            NT              NT             NT
 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander                        0               0           0.00            0.00           0.00
 Two or More Races                                          --             NT            NT              NT             NT
 White                                                      --             NT            NT              NT             NT
 English Learners                                           --             NT            NT              NT             NT
 Foster Youth                                               0               0           0.00            0.00           0.00
 Homeless                                                   0               0           0.00            0.00           0.00
 Military                                                   0               0           0.00            0.00           0.00
 Socioeconomically Disadvantaged                            --             NT            NT              NT             NT
 Students Receiving Migrant Education Services              0               0           0.00            0.00           0.00
 Students with Disabilities                                 14             NT            NT              NT             NT




2022 School Accountability Report Card                   Page 11 of 21                         Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
CAASPP Test Results in Science for All Students
CAASPP Test Results in Science for All Students

This table displays the percentage of all students grades five, eight, and High School meeting or exceeding the State Standard.

For any 2020–21 data cells with N/T values indicate that this school did not test students using the CAASPP for Science.
                                                  School           School       District     District        State         State
                    Subject
                                                  2020-21          2021-22      2020-21      2021-22        2020-21       2021-22
 Science                                             --              --             --            5.61        28.5         29.47
 (grades 5, 8 and high school)

2021-22 CAASPP Test Results in Science by Student Group
2021-22 CAASPP Test Results in Science by Student Group

This table displays CAASPP test results in Science by student group for students grades five, eight, and High School. Double
dashes (--) appear in the table when the number of students is ten or less, either because the number of students in this category
is too small for statistical accuracy or to protect student privacy.
                                                                                                                         Percent
                                                            Total            Number        Percent        Percent
                    Student Group                                                                                         Met or
                                                          Enrollment         Tested        Tested        Not Tested
                                                                                                                        Exceeded
 All Students                                                 --               --            --               --            --
 Female                                                       --               --            --               --            --
 Male                                                         --               --            --               --            --
 American Indian or Alaska Native                             0                0             0                0              0
 Asian                                                        0                0             0                0              0
 Black or African American                                    --               --            --               --            --
 Filipino                                                     0                0             0                0              0
 Hispanic or Latino                                           --               --            --               --            --
 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander                          0                0             0                0              0
 Two or More Races                                            --               --            --               --            --
 White                                                        --               --            --               --            --
 English Learners                                             0                0             0                0              0
 Foster Youth                                                 0                0             0                0              0
 Homeless                                                     0                0             0                0              0
 Military                                                     0                0             0                0              0
 Socioeconomically Disadvantaged                              --               --            --               --            --
 Students Receiving Migrant Education Services                0                0             0                0              0
 Students with Disabilities                                   --               --            --               --            --




2022 School Accountability Report Card                     Page 12 of 21                           Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
2021-22 Career Technical Education Programs
2021-22 Career Technical Education Programs
 Transition Services, or the “School-to-World Program”, is a very important thread that runs through the fabric of the Career
 Technical Education (CTE) program at Leo A. Palmiter's Jr./Sr. High School. Through research-based “best practices”, the
 school offers functional skills assessment, trainings in self-determination, social skills, and employment skills, as well as
 connections to the community to help students participate in society to the highest degree possible. Some of the
 school/business partnerships at the school include:
     • California Restaurant Association
     • Community Partnerships of Sacramento
     • Country Waffles
     • Department of Rehabilitation
     • Dimple Records
     • Deseret Industries
     • Dollar Tree Stores
     • Eskaton Senior Living Communities
     • Goodwill Industries
     • Habitat for Humanity
     • Hair by Michael Jo
     • Johnny Rockets
     • Mobile Auto Express
     • Nor-Cal Woodturner’s Association
     • Performance Bicycle
     • Sam’s Club
     • Soil Born Farms
     • Subway
     • Sacramento Municipal Utilities District (SMUD)
     • Sacramento Tree Foundation
     • UC Davis Health System
     • River Valley Feed Store


 --------

2021-22 Career Technical Education (CTE) Participation
2021-22 Career Technical Education (CTE) Participation

                                             Measure                                                CTE Program Participation
 Number of Pupils Participating in CTE                                                                            25

 Percent of Pupils that Complete a CTE Program and Earn a High School Diploma

 Percent of CTE Courses that are Sequenced or Articulated Between the School and
 Institutions of Postsecondary Education

Course Enrollment/Completion
Course Enrollment/Completion
This table displays the course enrollment/completion of University of California (UC) and/or California State University (CSU)
admission requirements.
                                    UC/CSU Course Measure                                                      Percent
 2021-22 Pupils Enrolled in Courses Required for UC/CSU Admission                                                0.00

 2020-21 Graduates Who Completed All Courses Required for UC/CSU Admission                                       0.00




2022 School Accountability Report Card                    Page 13 of 21                         Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
B. Pupil Outcomes                           State Priority: Other Pupil Outcomes
                                            The SARC provides the following information relevant to the State priority: Other Pupil
                                            Outcomes (Priority 8): Pupil outcomes in the subject area of physical education.

B. Pupil Outcomes (State Priority: Other Pupil Outcomes)
2021-22 California Physical Fitness Test Results
2021-22 California Physical Fitness Test Results

This table displays the percentage of students participating in each of the five fitness components of the California Physical Fitness
Test Results. Due to changes to the 2021-22 PFT administration, only participation results are required for these five fitness
areas. Percentages are not calculated and double dashes (--) appear in the table when the number of students tested is ten or
less, either because the number of students in this category is too small for statistical accuracy or to protect student privacy.
                                            Component 2:           Component 3:           Component 4:
                    Component 1:             Abdominal            Trunk Extensor           Upper Body             Component 5:
  Grade Level
                   Aerobic Capacity         Strength and         and Strength and         Strength and              Flexibility
                                             Endurance               Flexibility           Endurance
    Grade 7                 --                     --                      --                     --                     --
    Grade 9                 --                     --                      --                     --                     --


C. Engagement (State Priority: Parental Involvement)
C. Engagement                               State Priority: Parental Involvement
                                            The SARC provides the following information relevant to the State priority: Parental
                                            Involvement (Priority 3): Efforts the school district makes to seek parent input in making
                                            decisions regarding the school district and at each school site.


2022-23 Opportunities for Parental Involvement
2022-23 Opportunities for Parental Involvement
 As partners in the educational process, parents and guardians play an important role in the education of their student. With
 their support, students’ educational, social, and emotional growth will be optimized. Parent support is delivered in many
 different ways. Various opportunities for parental and guardian involvement, including the Individualized Education Program
 (IEP), are available. Each student’s education plan is reviewed annually or more often if needed. Parents and guardians are
 encouraged and invited to attend special events such as Back-to–School Night, Open House, and other academy events such
 as the monthly opening of our student-run restaurant. School Site Council, Safety Committees, Curriculum Adoption, and Local
 Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP) meetings are additional opportunities for parents and guardians to have positive input
 in their child’s education.--------

C. Engagement (State Priority: Pupil Engagement)
C. Engagement                                   State Priority: Pupil Engagement
                                                The SARC provides the following information relevant to the State priority: Pupil
                                                Engagement (Priority 5):

                                                    •    High school dropout rates;
                                                    •    High school graduation rates; and
                                                    •    Chronic Absenteeism




2022 School Accountability Report Card                     Page 14 of 21                          Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
Dropout Rate and Graduation Rate (Four-Year Cohort Rate)
Dropout Rate and Graduation Rate (Four-Year Cohort Rate)

                      School      School      School     District     District   District        State       State          State
        Indicator
                      2019-20     2020-21     2021-22    2019-20      2020-21    2021-22        2019-20     2020-21        2021-22
 Dropout Rate                       7.1          --                     18.5       23.2                       8.9            7.8
 Graduation Rate                    14.3         --                     27.6       37.2                       84.2           87

2021-22 Graduation Rate by Student Group (Four-Year Cohort Rate)
2021-22 Graduation Rate by Student Group (Four-Year Cohort Rate)

This table displays the 2021-22 graduation rate by student group. For information on the Four-Year Adjusted Cohort Graduation
Rate (ACGR), visit the CDE Adjusted Cohort Graduation Rate web page at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/ad/acgrinfo.asp.
                                                            Number of               Number of                    Cohort
                    Student Group
                                                        Students in Cohort       Cohort Graduates            Graduation Rate
 All Students                                                    --                       --                          --
 Female                                                          --                       --                          --
 Male                                                            --                       --                          --
 American Indian or Alaska Native                                0                          0                        0.0
 Asian                                                           0                          0                        0.0
 Black or African American                                       --                       --                          --
 Filipino                                                        0                          0                        0.0
 Hispanic or Latino                                              0                          0                        0.0
 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander                             0                          0                        0.0
 Two or More Races                                               0                          0                        0.0
 White                                                           --                       --                          --
 English Learners                                                0                          0                        0.0
 Foster Youth                                                    --                       --                          --
 Homeless                                                        --                       --                          --
 Socioeconomically Disadvantaged                                 --                       --                          --
 Students Receiving Migrant Education Services                   0                          0                        0.0
 Students with Disabilities                                      --                       --                          --




2022 School Accountability Report Card                  Page 15 of 21                           Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
2021-22 Chronic Absenteeism by Student Group
2021-22 Chronic Absenteeism by Student Group

                                                                          Chronic           Chronic           Chronic
                                                     Cumulative
                  Student Group                                        Absenteeism        Absenteeism       Absenteeism
                                                     Enrollment
                                                                    Eligible Enrollment      Count             Rate
 All Students                                             54                51                 40               78.4
 Female                                                   8                  8                  8               100.0
 Male                                                     46                43                 32               74.4
 American Indian or Alaska Native                         0                  0                  0                0.0
 Asian                                                    0                  0                  0                0.0
 Black or African American                                14                14                 11               78.6
 Filipino                                                 0                  0                  0                0.0
 Hispanic or Latino                                       9                  9                  8               88.9
 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander                      0                  0                  0                0.0
 Two or More Races                                        1                  1                  1               100.0
 White                                                    17                16                 12               75.0
 English Learners                                         2                  2                  1               50.0
 Foster Youth                                             3                  2                  2               100.0
 Homeless                                                 8                  8                  6               75.0
 Socioeconomically Disadvantaged                          39                37                 28               75.7
 Students Receiving Migrant Education Services            0                  0                  0                0.0
 Students with Disabilities                               54                51                 40               78.4


C. Engagement (State Priority: School Climate)
C. Engagement                            State Priority: School Climate
                                         The SARC provides the following information relevant to the State priority: School
                                         Climate (Priority 6):

                                            •   Pupil suspension rates;
                                            •   Pupil expulsion rates; and
                                            •   Other local measures on the sense of safety




2022 School Accountability Report Card                 Page 16 of 21                      Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
Suspensions and Expulsions
Suspensions and Expulsions


This table displays suspensions and expulsions data collected between July through February, partial school year due to the
COVID-19 pandemic. The 2019-20 suspensions and expulsions rate data are not comparable to other year data because the
2019-20 school year is a partial school year due to the COVID-19 crisis. As such, it would be inappropriate to make any
comparisons in rates of suspensions and expulsions in the 2019-20 school year compared to other school years.
                                                School        District     State
                    Subject
                                                2019-20       2019-20     2019-20
 Suspensions                                     57.65          6.24        2.45
 Expulsions                                       0.00          0.00        0.05

This table displays suspensions and expulsions data collected between July through June, each full school year respectively.
Data collected during the 2020-21 school year may not be comparable to earlier years of this collection due to differences in
learning mode instruction in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
                                                School        School      District      District       State         State
                    Subject
                                                2020-21       2021-22     2020-21       2021-22       2020-21       2021-22
 Suspensions                                      0.00         25.93        0.16            8.81        0.20           3.17
 Expulsions                                       0.00          0.00        0.00            0.03        0.00           0.07

2021-22 Suspensions and Expulsions by Student Group
2021-22 Suspensions and Expulsions by Student Group

                              Student Group                                  Suspensions Rate            Expulsions Rate
 All Students                                                                        25.93                      0.00
 Female                                                                              0.00                       0.00
 Male                                                                                26.09                      0.00
 American Indian or Alaska Native                                                    0.00                       0.00
 Asian                                                                               0.00                       0.00
 Black or African American                                                           28.57                      0.00
 Filipino                                                                            0.00                       0.00
 Hispanic or Latino                                                                  0.00                       0.00
 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander                                                 0.00                       0.00
 Two or More Races                                                                   0.00                       0.00
 White                                                                               23.53                      0.00
 English Learners                                                                    0.00                       0.00
 Foster Youth                                                                        0.00                       0.00
 Homeless                                                                            0.00                       0.00
 Socioeconomically Disadvantaged                                                     25.64                      0.00
 Students Receiving Migrant Education Services                                       0.00                       0.00
 Students with Disabilities                                                          25.93                      0.00




2022 School Accountability Report Card                   Page 17 of 21                       Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
2022-23 School Safety Plan
2022-23 School Safety Plan
 A comprehensive school safety plan is in place at Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School. The elements of the plan include Fire
 Emergency Procedures, Lockdown Procedures, Emergency Contact Protocol, and Earthquake Emergency Procedures.
 School-wide and classroom expectations are taught and reinforced through a Positive Interventions and Supports (PBIS).
 Students are supported with behavior interventions, mentoring, and group counseling depending on their level of need through
 the school's Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS).
 All classes adhere to the safety plan; staff and students review safety procedures quarterly. A School Resource Officer (SRO)
 is on-site at the Palmiter school campus and interacts with students and staff, providing instruction in safety and emergency
 situations. A School Safety Committee meets on a regular basis to review safety procedures at Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School.
 Parents are informed of the campus Safety Plan through a quarterly newsletter.
 --------

2019-20 Secondary Average Class Size and Class Size Distribution
2019-20 Secondary Average Class Size and Class Size Distribution

This table displays the 2019-20 average class size and class size distribution. The columns titled “Number of Classes” indicates
how many classes fall into each size category (a range of total students per classroom). At the secondary school level, this
information is reported by subject area rather than grade level.
                               Average
                                             Number of Classes with      Number of Classes with      Number of Classes with
           Subject              Class
                                                1-22 Students               23-32 Students               33+ Students
                                 Size
 English Language Arts
 Mathematics
 Science
 Social Science

2020-21 Secondary Average Class Size and Class Size Distribution
2020-21 Secondary Average Class Size and Class Size Distribution

This table displays the 2020-21 average class size and class size distribution. The columns titled “Number of Classes” indicates
how many classes fall into each size category (a range of total students per classroom). At the secondary school level, this
information is reported by subject area rather than grade level.
                               Average
                                             Number of Classes with      Number of Classes with      Number of Classes with
           Subject              Class
                                                1-22 Students               23-32 Students               33+ Students
                                 Size
 English Language Arts
 Mathematics
 Science
 Social Science




2022 School Accountability Report Card                   Page 18 of 21                        Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
2021-22 Secondary Average Class Size and Class Size Distribution
2021-22 Secondary Average Class Size and Class Size Distribution

This table displays the 2021-22 average class size and class size distribution. The columns titled “Number of Classes” indicates
how many classes fall into each size category (a range of total students per classroom). At the secondary school level, this
information is reported by subject area rather than grade level.
                               Average
                                                 Number of Classes with    Number of Classes with     Number of Classes with
           Subject              Class
                                                    1-22 Students             23-32 Students              33+ Students
                                 Size
 English Language Arts
 Mathematics
 Science
 Social Science

2021-22 Ratio of Pupils to Academic Counselor
2021-22 Ratio of Pupils to Academic Counselor

This table displays the ratio of pupils to Academic Counselor. One full time equivalent (FTE) equals one staff member working
full time; one FTE could also represent two staff members who each work 50 percent of full time.
                             Title                                                           Ratio
 Pupils to Academic Counselor                                                                   0

2021-22 Student Support Services Staff
2021-22 Student Support Services Staff

This table displays the number of FTE support staff assigned to this school. One full time equivalent (FTE) equals one staff
member working full time; one FTE could also represent two staff members who each work 50 percent of full time.
                                         Title                                          Number of FTE Assigned to School
 Counselor (Academic, Social/Behavioral or Career Development)
 Library Media Teacher (Librarian)
 Library Media Services Staff (Paraprofessional)
 Psychologist                                                                                            1.0
 Social Worker
 Nurse
 Speech/Language/Hearing Specialist
 Resource Specialist (non-teaching)
 Other




2022 School Accountability Report Card                     Page 19 of 21                       Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
2020-21 Expenditures Per Pupil and School Site Teacher Salaries
2020-21 Expenditures Per Pupil and School Site Teacher Salaries

This table displays the 2020-21 expenditures per pupil and average teacher salary for this school. Cells with N/A values do not
require data.
                                                        Total            Expenditures         Expenditures         Average
                      Level                         Expenditures           Per Pupil            Per Pupil          Teacher
                                                      Per Pupil           (Restricted)        (Unrestricted)        Salary
 School Site                                           $60,108             $59,746                $362              $90,353
 District                                                 N/A                N/A                 $2,595             $89,070
 Percent Difference - School Site and District            N/A                N/A                 -151.0               1.4
 State                                                    N/A                N/A                 $6,594
 Percent Difference - School Site and State               N/A                N/A                 -179.2               -5.3

2021-22 Types of Services Funded
2021-22 Types of Services Funded
 The Special Education Department SCOE offers special education services to students with significant and complex
 disabilities. These students’ needs have been identified in an Individualized Education Program (IEP) plan developed by a
 school district or the county office of education program team. There are classrooms located throughout the county and located
 on general education campuses. SCOE works closely with the districts to provide students with age appropriate campuses that
 give them opportunities to interact with their peers.--------

2020-21 Teacher and Administrative Salaries
2020-21 Teacher and Administrative Salaries
This table displays the 2020-21 Teacher and Administrative salaries. For detailed information on salaries, see the CDE
Certification Salaries & Benefits web page at http://www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/.
                                                                                                            State Average
                                                                                   District
                               Category                                                                      for Districts
                                                                                   Amount
                                                                                                          in Same Category
 Beginning Teacher Salary
 Mid-Range Teacher Salary
 Highest Teacher Salary
 Average Principal Salary (Elementary)
 Average Principal Salary (Middle)
 Average Principal Salary (High)
 Superintendent Salary
 Percent of Budget for Teacher Salaries
 Percent of Budget for Administrative Salaries




2022 School Accountability Report Card                   Page 20 of 21                          Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
2021-22 Advanced Placement (AP) Courses
2021-22 Advanced Placement (AP) Courses
This table displays the percent of student in AP courses at this school.
 Percent of Students in AP Courses                                                                              0


This table displays the number of AP courses offered at this school where there are student course enrollments of at least one
student.
                                           Subject                                              Number of AP Courses Offered
 Computer Science                                                                                               0

 English                                                                                                        0

 Fine and Performing Arts                                                                                       0

 Foreign Language                                                                                               0

 Mathematics                                                                                                    0

 Science                                                                                                        0

 Social Science                                                                                                 0

 Total AP Courses Offered                                                                                       0
 Where there are student course enrollments of at least one student.

Professional Development
Professional Development

 Staff development opportunities are provided throughout the year with staff meetings, and school-based trainings. Staff
 training opportunities have been offered in the areas of reading comprehension, civic education, Social Emotional Learning
 (SEL), trauma informed care, and the integration of technology and visual arts in the curriculum. Workshops in the area of
 positive behavior interventions and supports are developed to assist the instructional staff with evaluating and improving the
 classroom and school-wide systems. Additionally, teacher requests for professional growth workshops are approved by
 administration.-------
This table displays the number of school days dedicated to staff development and continuous improvement.
                                            Subject                                              2020-21     2021-22     2022-23
 Number of school days dedicated to Staff Development and Continuous Improvement                     3           3




2022 School Accountability Report Card                    Page 21 of 21                         Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School
