<!-- Page 1 -->
# SAN JUAN SUBURBAN WATER DISTRICT FINANCING CORPORATION  
## ANNUAL MEETING AGENDA  

9935 Auburn Folsom Road  
Granite Bay, CA 95746  

December 12, 2018  
6:00 p.m.  

The Board may take action on any item on the agenda, including items listed on the agenda as information items. The Board may add an item to the agenda (1) upon a determination by at least three Board members that an emergency situation exists, or (2) upon a determination by at least four Board members (or by three Board members if there are only three Board members present) that the need to take action became apparent after the agenda was posted.

The public may address the Board concerning an agenda item either before or during the Board’s consideration of that agenda item. Public comment on items within the jurisdiction of the Board is welcome, subject to reasonable time limitations for each speaker. Upon request, agenda items may be moved up to accommodate those in attendance wishing to address that item. Please inform the General Manager.

Documents and materials that are related to an open session agenda item that are provided to the District Board less than 72 hours prior to a regular meeting will be made available for public inspection and copying at the District office during normal District business hours.

In compliance with the American’s with Disabilities Act, if you have a disability and need a disability-related modification or accommodation to participate in this meeting, please contact the Board Secretary at 916-791-0115. Requests must be made as early as possible, and at least one full business day before the start of the meeting.

Please silence cell phones and refrain from side conversations during the meeting.

---

I. CALL TO ORDER  

II. PUBLIC COMMENT  

III. ACTION ITEMS  
1. Approve minutes of San Juan Water District Financing Corporation meeting of December 13, 2017  
2. Other Business  

IV. FUTURE MEETING DATE - December 11, 2019  

V. ADJOURN  

I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing agenda for the December 12, 2018 annual meeting of the Board of Directors of San Juan Suburban Water District Financing Corporation was posted by December 7, 2018, on the outdoor bulletin boards at the District Office Building, 9935 Auburn Folsom Road, Granite Bay, California, and was freely accessible to the public.

Teri Grant, Board Secretary
