                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700

  ADAM A. HOUSE
    Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA

                                             Thursday, August 14, 2025 - 6:00 PM
Ted Wood
                                             Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                    10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4                                        Board Room - Second Floor
John Costa                                             Mather, California
Board Vice President                                           &
Division 9
                                                      Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                    Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                      Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                           Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                     if Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member             https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ1 Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Division 1


Grant Goold
Board Member
                       The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D'Elman Clark          Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member
                       accommodations:
Division 8
                                                                Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                   THURSDAY, AUGUST 14, 2025


►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov. Today's meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
August 18, 2025, and again at 6:00 p.m. on Wednesday, August 20, 2025, on Metro
Cable Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand
at you tube.com/metrocable 14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers' comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                     Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                              5
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of July 24, 2025.

2.     Purchase Approval - Two (2) Caterpillar D5 Fire Doze rs                       1O
       Recommendation: Approve the purchase of two (2) Caterpillar 05 Fire Dozers from
       Holt of California utilizing the Sourcewell contract number 011723-CAT.
•               •   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
    ~               10545 Armstrong Ave. , Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (91 6) 859-3700


    REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                  THURSDAY, AUGUST 14, 2025


    3.   Adopt Resolution - Surplus IT Equipment                                        14
         Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the disposal of the District's 1.T.
         Division surplus equipment.

    4.   Adopt Resolution - Extension of Medical Coverage Benefit Program (SCERS) 17
         Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the continuation of medical
         premium subsidy for the affected Sacramento County Employees' Retirement System
         (SCERS) retirees at the established monthly amount as listed in the Resolution.

    REPORTS:

    1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                 (President Wood)

    2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -                 (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

                OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

                ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

                SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

    3.   SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
         522 Vice President)

    4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
         All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
         Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

         A.     Executive Committee - (President Wood)
                Met Today; Next Meeting : TBD

         B.     Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
                Next Meeting: August 26, 2025 at 9:00 AM
                SRFECC Annex - 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite 200, Sacramento

         C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
                Next Meeting: August 28, 2025, at 5:30 PM

         D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
                Next Meeting: September 11, 2025, at 5:30 PM

    BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                         THURSDAY, AUGUST 14, 2025



CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter(s):

1. PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (a) -
   TWO (2) MATTERS OF WORKERS' COMPENSATION SETTLEMENT
   AUTHORITY.

    1.    Randy Bowes and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          Claim# SMDN-549467; SMDN - 549157, - Workers Compensation Settlement
          Authority - Colin Connor of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

    2.    Steven Oberlander and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          Claim # 4A22082Q2PG0001, - Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
          Colin Connor of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong A venue, Mather, CA

    •    Regular Board Meeting - August 28, 2025, at 6:00 PM

Posted on August 11, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.



Marni Rittburg~ c,cpM
Clerk of the Board

** No written report
•IE'.ill Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility.
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief       ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                               BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                       SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                    Thursday, Jµly 24, 2025
                                Held at the following locations:
                            10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                       Mather, California
                                                &
                                      Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold, Jones, Saylors, Stark, Webber and Wood. Board members absent:
  Rice. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  No public comments were received .

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Clark, and carried unanimously by members present
  to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.      Action Summary Minutes
          Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
          of July 10, 2025.
          Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.      Request for Exception to Formal Solicitation Process - ImageTrend Contract
          Renewal (3 years)
          Recommendation: Approve an exception to the formal solicitation process and authorize
          the Fire Chief or his designee to negotiate, execute, and administer the renewal of the
          lmageTrend subscription agreement.
          Action: Approved.

  3.      Adopt Resolution - Surplus IT Equipment
          Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the disposal of the District's I.T. Division
          surplus equipment.
          Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-054.




                                                                                                             PS
4.        Memorandum of Understanding with the City of Rancho Cordova for Funding of
          Squad 61 Enhanced Fire Protection & Emergency Medical Services
          Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief to sign the MOU to provide enhanced
          services to the City and facilitate the acceptance of up to $825,000 in payment for those
          services in FY 2025/26.
          Action: Approved.

ACTION ITEMS
1.        Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement - Captain Michael Ryan Gifford
          Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
          finding Michael Ryan Gifford has suffered job-related injuries incapacitating him for the
          performance of duties as a Captain, and direct staff to continue working with Captain
          Gifford through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
          Action: None, item to be voted on after discussion in Closed Session.

REPORTS

1.       PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

          No Report

2.       FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT- (Acting Fire Chief Wagaman)

Good evening, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of ~he Public

     •    We have received notic~ that Folsom Fire Station 34 will be temporary closing, •
          effective August 26, due to budget constraints:

             o A meeting is pending with Chief Casano to discuss the closure and its potential
               ramifications on our regional boundary-drop automatic aid system
             o I will be focusing on ensuring that service delivery gaps created by Folsom's
               budgetary shortfall is not bridged by Metro Fire
             o Further updates will follow after my meeting with Chief Casano.

     •    I want to provide an update on our single-resource USAR K9 deployed to Kerr County,
          Texas. Handler and rescuer Brandon Andersen and K9 Olaf are doing well. Their team
          is working in the Camp Mystic area, where they have located one victim thus far. As of
          today, there are 108 victims from this tragic flood, including 71 adults and 37 children,
          with 2 still missing. We look forward to Andersen and Olaf's safe return once their
          important work there is complete.

     •    Last night, the CA State Fair hosted the HERO Act Chili Cook Off. The concept was a
          collaboration between Congressman Ami Bera office, Metro Fire, and Local 522, to
          bring awareness for Congressman Bera's HERO Act legislation, as well as support
          firefighters and first responders' mental health and wellness. Regional teams of
          firefighters came together to compete with West Sacramento Fire taking 3rd place,
          Metro Fire Station 24 taking 2nd place, and Metro Fire Station 26 taking 1st. The event
          was a ton of fun and a big success. I look forward to see what team takes the golden
          bear next year.


                                                                                     Page 2 of 5
                                                                                                      P6
7.24.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
OPERATIONS REPORT - (Assistant Chief Johnson)

   1. Update on Behavior Health call responses.
        a. Sac ~heriff Dispatch changes
               i. Regional Fire Chiefs
        b. Fire Dispatch changes
               i. Regional Ops Chiefs
        c. Internal Policy

   2. AC Johnson introduced newly promoted Captain Powers who spoke for a few minutes.


ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
COMMUNITY RELATIONS DIVISION

   •    We recently faced a heartbreaking loss in our community: the passing of a 92-year-old
        man due to not having a smoke alarm. In light of this, we will be teaming up with the
        American Red Cross to launch a smoke alarm campaign in the Arden community. We
        encourage everyone to check their smoke alarms monthly-it's a quick step that can
        save lives.

   •     Metro Fire is excited to participate in National Night Out, which will take place on the
       r evening of Tuesday, August 5. This annual event unites neighbors, local law
         enforcement, and fire districts to strengthen community ties and enhance safety in our
         neighborhoods. It will include block parties, cookouts, and various community
         gatherings aimed at fostering stronger relationships between residents and first
         responders.

   •    All information about our National Night Out events can be found on the Ops calendar.
        We encourage Captains and Battalion Chiefs to actively engage with community
        members during this event. An updated list of events will be emailed to the Board on
        Monday, August 4 .


HUMAN RESOURCES
  • Member was injured on 05/01 with an indication at the emergency room that surgery
    would be needed.
       o The member was seen by our new provider partner, MyNP, on 05/02 (a Friday).
          They were then referred to the providers' orthopedic/podiatry and imaging
          partner for back-to-back appointments on 05/06, which confirmed t~e need for
          surgery.
       o The member completed approved surgery on 05/12/2025, only 11 calendar
          days post injury.

SUPPORT SERVICES - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)
No Report


                                                                                    Page 3 of 5
                                                                                                    P7   ,
7.24.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
     Captain Scollard reported that we have appreciated the communication we've had lately. We
     want to emphasize the need for recruitment. We need more bodies; we don't have enough
     staffing. On Strategic Planning that was discussed tonight, we have intelligent and capable
     employees. I would ask that if the District contracts with a firm, please include Labor. On the
     Mental Health calls, Local 522 has drafted a letter that will be sent out to our partners
     demanding that we do not go on those calls without Sheriff assistance.

4.        COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
          All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
          10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

          A.       Executive Committee - (President Wood)
          The Executive Committee met today and gave direction to staff . to engage in
          discussions/negotiations with a firm for strategic planning services and bring back a
          contract to a future meeting for full Board consideration. There was no reportable action
          from the closed session, performance evaluation.
          8.       Communications Center JPA- (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

          The Communication Center JPA Board last met on July 22, 2025. During that meeting the
          Board thanked staff for the work they are doing to implement the dispatch changes that
          were requested by the County Fire Chiefs. No other reportable action occurred.

          C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)

                   No Report

          D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)

                   No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Jones reported that she attended a Public Safety meeting at Rancho Cordova City
Hall with several employees. Two dozen folks were in the audience. It was a great meeting.

Director Goold stated he hopes we will be kept apprised of the closing of Folsom Fire Station
34 in the coming weeks. I'm concerned that some decisions were made without our input and
that the closure will impact the District. I met with the Finance division today, and they are
doing a great job and have won numerous awards.

Director Webber wished Chief House a speedy recovery.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 6:39 p.m. on the following matter(s):

1. PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (a) -
   ONE (1) MATTER OF INDUSTRIAL DISABILITY RETIREMENT.

     1.    Michael Ryan Gifford and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
           Claim## 4A2301SLCVZ0001 - Industrial Disability Retirement
           Joseph Fiorica, Deputy Chief of Administration
                                                                                                         Page 4 of 5
                                                                                                                       PB
7.24.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened in open session at 7:09 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
that the Board met in closed session on one item: 1. Industrial Disability Retirement of
Captain Michael Ryan Gifford , no reportable action was taken in closed session.

ACTION ITEM CONTINUED TO AFTER CLOSED SESSION:

1.     Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement - Captain Michael
       Ryan Gifford
       Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
       finding Michael Ryan Gifford has suffered job-related injuries incapacitating him for the
       performance of duties as a Captain, and direct staff to continue working with Captain
       Gifford through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
       Action: President Wood announced that the Board will not take action on this item tonight.
       It will be brought back to a future Board meeting.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://sacfi re-px.specia Id istrict. org/2 025-07 -24-boa rd-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA


ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 7:11 p.m., and a moment of silence was observed in honor of
the victims of the Texas floods.




Ted Wood, Board President                                Robert Webber, Secretary



Marni Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk




                                                                                                  pg
7.24.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 5 of 5
                          Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   1           I
                          10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~u,~
ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief


       DATE:           August 14, 2025

       TO:             Board of Directors

       SUBJECT:        Purchase Approval -Two (2) Caterpillar D5 Fire Dozers


                                                             TOPIC

       Staff seeks Board approval for the purchase of two (2) Caterpillar D5 Fire Dozers from Holt of California.

                                                           SUMMARY

       These vehicles will be replacing fire dozers that are at the end of their service life due to age and condition.

                                                          DISCUSSION

       The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (Metro Fire) intends to fulfill this purchase utilizing the Sourcewell
       purchasing contract number 011723-CA. Sourcewell is a State of Minnesota local government unit and service
       cooperative that facilitates competitive public solicitation and contract award processes for the benefit of its
       government participating entities across the United States and Canada. Cooperative purchasing provides these
       participating entitles with increased administrative efficiencies and the power of combined purchasing volume
       that result in overall cost savings.

       On January 17, 2023, Sourcewell issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) #011723 for Heavy Construction
       Equipment with Related Attachments and Technology. Caterpillar Inc. was awarded contract #011723-CAT as
       a result of this competitive solicitation. Per the Sourcewell agreement, Caterpillar Inc. Is authorized to
       subcontract certain obligations to its dealers. Caterpillar Inc. has confirmed that the authorized dealer in Metro
       Fire's area is Holt of California. •

       Metro Fire is registered with Sourcewell as a participating entity and is eligible to utilize this contract. The
       Purchasing Division has reviewed the contract and determined it is consistent with Metro Fire purchasing
       policies and procedures.

                                                        FISCAL IMPACT

       The total cost of the purchase for the Two (2) Caterpillar D5 Fire Dozers is $1,442,962.63. The funding for this
       purchase is included in the FY 2025/26 Final Budget.

                                                      RECOMMENDATION

       Staff respectfully recommends the Board approve the purchase of two (2) Caterpillar D5 Fire Dozers from Holt
       of California utilizing the Sourcewell contract number 011723-CAT.


       Submitted by:    Q                                       Approved ~

         ~Q\                u es(?(!.
       Shea Pursell                                            Ty~
       Fleet Manager                                           Deputy Chief, Support Services




                                            Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                                            P10
                                                                                                                                                           Quote 163431-06

            HOLT
            of Californln
                                                                                                                                                                  July 27, 2025
SAC METRO FIRE DISTRICT
Account# 4655000
10545 ARMSTRONG AVE STE 200
MATHER, California 95655 4102
Attention: Alexander Clinton

                New Caterpillar Model: D5 Track Type Tractor with all standard equipment i n addition to the additional specifications listed below:
                 STOCK NUMBER: Will Need To Order                       SERIAL NUMBER: Current ETA 35.45 Weeks From Order Date                       YEAR: 2026
ADDITIONAL SPECIFICATIONS
 Reference# Description of Material and Equipment                                                Reference# Description of Material and Equipment

510-7535     D5 VPAT DOZER 170 HP 46,500 LBS                                                     579-3006     DOZER CTL, FSD

637-5509     CONFIGURATION 178, FIRE SUPRESSION DOZER                                            619-4081     PROD LINK, PLE683/PLE783 RADIO
             FIRE SUPPRESSION DOZER, VPAT
             -All fluid lines (hydraulic, fuel, NC, DEF, fuel, waler), harnesses and battery
             cables fire resistant wrapped
             - Heavy duty bottom guards (0.62" 116mm thick)
             - Fuel tank guard HD                                                                             CAT C7.1 ENGINE TIER 4 FINAL, FSD, EMERGENCY
             - Harnesses to connect 16 lights (typically 12 bright lights+ 4 amber lights)                    Special engine arrangement for emergency vehicles as
             - 4x4200 lumens heat resistant lights (casing & lens), two mounted on the                        defined in EPA 40 CFR Part 1039.801 for USA
637-5559     radiator guard facing forward and two mounted on cab facing rearward                583-3614     (AGENCY DOCUMENTATION/APPROVAL REQUIRED)
             - Front and rear sweeps equipped wilh roof top and a meshed grill between                        - No engine power derate caused by an engine emission
             sweep arms at front                                                                              malfunctions
             - One front towing eye (keeps front tie-downs)                                                   - Harnesses, hoses and fuel lines fire wrapped
             - Silicone sealing between cab and fenders
             - Hydraulic reversing fan
             - Standard batteries
             - Slope indicate, Stable blade and Slope Assist
                                                                                                              BLADE, VPAT, BRUSH GUARD
             UNDERCARRIAGE, HD, XR(EXTRA REAR ROLLER), FSD                                              I
                                                                                                              Blade is equipped wilh a brush guard and supplied with two
 566-2417    Adds one roller at rear to bring additional machine stability in steep slopes and 625-1562       steel cables protecting the front hydraulic lines between the
             loose malerial when machine is equipped with a winch.                                            radiator guard and the brush guard blade.
             FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM READY OPTION, ON BOARD                                                   BULLDOZER PACKAGE, VPAT, FSD
             On board, fire suppression ready system includes a 22 gal tank (minimum                          -Bulldozer VPAT (with C-Frame, 2 lift, 2 angle and 1 lilt cylinder)
             capacity), a pump activated from the operator seat, a hose with hand spray                       -Hydraulic lines ,•~th protection guards above the lift and lilt
 572-5775                                                                                 566-2420
             nozzle and a valve ready to plug a sprinkling system (not supplied). Feeds                       cylinder lines
             eilher a sprinkling system or a external water gun. Water pump flow form .92                     -Bulldozer lift & angles lines equipped 1•olh thermal and abrasion
             gal/min@ max pressure or 2.2 gal/min @ ambient pressure.                                         wrap.

 510-1531     RADIATOR, STANDARD                                                                 508-1610     FUEL TANK, BASIC
 510-9717     FINAL DRIVE, 74"                                                                   550-5600     HYDRAULIC OIL, STANDARD

 632-7067     TRK, 22",ES, XR, FSD,HDXL,CTWS                                                     579-5798     ENGINE COOLANT, -35F

 606-5094     GUARD GUIDING,FULL,HDXL,XR,FSD                                                     579-5795     Ll)BRICANT, STANDARD

 589-3554     LIGHT, BEACON                                                                      575-5503     LIGHT, UNDERHOOD

 608-3256     JOYSTICK, ARO/GRADE, VPAT                                                          650-9573     LIGHT, REAR WORK

 566-2411     GRAB HANDLES, XR, VPAT, FSD                                                        623-9735     COVER, FUEL TANK GUARD, BASIC

 627-1568     PREMIUM CORP RADIO (12V)                                                           579-579 1    COVER, FUEL LINES, FSD
              LIGHTS, 12 BRIGHT+ 4 AMBER,FSD
              Provides 12 additional 4200 Lum bright lights a,id four 3370 Lum amber lights.                  RADIO, CB (READY)
              Lights have their body and lens heat resistant and are guarded. Localion: pair                  Provides factory integrated solution for mounting CB radio on
 637-5579     on the radiator guard facing forward, one pair on hood facing forward, one pair 617-3866        right rear cab C-Post. Includes adjustable mounting bracket,
              under the sweep roof facing forward, three pairs facing rearward and                            Co-Ax cables,CB antenna, 2nd power converter (15Amp) and
              sideways. Amber lights location: One pair localed on the hood and one pair at                   integrated power connection by radio.
              front of radiator, all lights facing forward.
              CAB, LAMINATED GLASS, FSD
              Fire suppression cab equipped with:
              - sealed laminated glass                                                                        SCREEN, REAR, HINGED
              - emergency fuel shut-off inside the cab                                                        Provides a protective hinged screen covering the rear cab
 612-0659     - hinged rear & side screens ready                                                 599-7940     window. Allows for ease of cleaning and changing of wiper
              - 6 switches controlling each pair of lights on the dashboard                                   blades.
              - dual control winch/ripper
              - electrical provision to connect an external strobe light or beacon
              - Remote Control (RC) ready
              SEAT, HEATED & VENTILATED                                                                       SCREEN, SIDES, HINGED
 560-9088     Comfort premium leather seat. Healed and venUlaled. Side and back cushion          600-1434     Protective hinged screens covering the back lell and right
              bolsters. Air adjust upper and lower lumbar support.                                            windows.
              FLOOR, CAB, QUICK ACCESS                                                                        SCREENS, FR WINDOW, CAB DOORS
              Provides quick tool-less access to below cab floor opening floor.                  582-7509     Additional hinged screens lo guard the front windshleld and the
 588-6170     Includes adjustable footrests and a thick floor plate for noise reduction in the                cab doors.
              operator station.
                                                                                                              PA65 WINCH, SLOW SPEED, PKG
              AIR FILTRATION, ENHANCED, CAB                                                                   Transmission PTO driven.
 646-6077     Powered turbine precleaner equipped ,•nth ember screen and supplied with a HEPA 515-3714        Bare drum line speed 41-63 feel per minute.
              air filler (filters 99.9% of particles below 0.3 micrometers).                                  Maximum rated line pulls 51,2001bs.
                                                                                                              Cable dia. 0.75 Inch.
                                                                                                   118-7211   WINCH FAIRLEAD, 3 ROLLERS & WINCH FOURTH
 639-5023     REAR CAMERA                                                                             &
                                                                                                              ROLLER
                                                                                                   174-4770

                                                                                                                                                                    Page 1 of 3
                                                                                                                                                                                    P11
                                                                                                                                Quote 163431-01


Reference# Description of Material and Equipment                         Reference# Description of Material and Equipment

                                                         NON-FACTORY ITEMS:


WHELEN, SIREN AMP, FULL FUNCTION, HANDS FREE                             WHELEN ALUMINUM SPEAKER
WHELEN POWER SUPPLY CONVERTER                                            WHELEN STROBE
SHOP FABRICATE 40" FRONT LIGHT BOX                                       WINCH CABLE
                                                                         ADDITIONAL 40" LIGHT BAR (BELOW LIMB RISERS)
                                                                                .                   _,   _ _.,
                                                                               1·· - - -                     ---                ·'

                                                                                   :! rl •n rl Tl J1 rt1 '!_I 'll 'J: 1 ,
                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                   l ...•.




SHOP FABRICATE REAR GUARD KIT




SHOP FABRICATE WINCH LIGHT GUARD




SHOP FABRICATE CUSTOM GUARD AROUND FILTER HOUSING (BACK RACK)


                                                                         ADDITIONAL 10" LIGHT BAR (ONE ON EACH SIDE OF BACK RACK)




■ OS FmR HOUSING CAN,mR KOT

                                                                         ADDITIONAL 1"X2" AMBER FLOOD LIGHTS (TWO ON EACH SIDE)



AIR FILTER & ENGINE PRE Cl                                               ADDITIONAL 2"X2" AMBER FLOOD LIGHTS (ONE ABOVE EACH DOOR) '
SHOP RESCREEN DOORS & WINDOW GUARDS WITH HEAVIER GUARDING                160 AMP ALTERNATOR




STORM KING FIRE CURTAINS & SHOP INSTALL INCLUDED



FABRICATE & INSTALL HEAVIER DUTY RADIATOR GUARD                                        INSTALL MODIFIED HINGE LATCH FOR SIDE SCREENS,
                                                                                           WITH BACK RACK




                                                                         INTEGRATE JOYSTICK PUSH TO TALK




                                                                         RELOCATE & INSTALL GOA INVERTER FOR CUSTOMERS RADIOS




                                    FABRICATE & INSTALL EASIER ACCESS BATTERY JUMP START RECEPTACLE

                                                                                                                                     Page 2 of 3
                                                                                                                                                   P12
                                                                                                                                       Quote 163431-06




WARRANTY INFORMATION
Standard Warranty:                                                  Premier Warranty (Bumper to Bumper) 12 Months/ Unlimited Hours
Extended Warranty:                                                  Powertrain & Hydraulics Warranty 84 Months/ 3,000 Hours Which Ever Occurs First
 CSA                                                                  Dry Parts Kit - 24 Months/1,000 Hours (3 Years Vision Link Access Included)
Two Caterpillar D5 Fire Dozer List Price                                                                                                      $1,298,380.00
Sourcewell Governmental Discount 23%                                                                                                           -$298,627.40
Additional Safety Lighting & Wiring Added, Air Intake/Pre Cleaner Canister, Calibrate Dozer, CSA, EIN Decals, Extended Warranty,
Freight, Fuel, Fabricate & Install Custom Fire Dozer Guarding & Screens, Fabricate & Install Custom Rear Toolboxes, Fabricate &
Install Heavy Duty Radiator Guard, Fabricate & Install Custom Screen Bump Out, Fabricate & Install Rear Winch Step, Install 160 amp $339,422.00
Alternator, Install Blade, Install/ Relocate Lighting, Install Winch, Install Winch Cable and Fairleads, Install Whelen Components(PA,
Strobe, and Speaker), Install GOA Inverter, Install Battery Jump Start, Install Latch Shielding, Integrate Joystick Push to Talk, Prep For
Delivery, Storm King Fire Curtains
Sac Metro Fire Discount Sell Price                                                                                                            $1,339,174.60
McClellan Park Sales Tax (7.75%)                                                                                                                $103,786.03
After Tax Balance                                                                                                                             $1 442 962.63

'THIS QUOTE IS BASED ON CURRENT FACTORY PRICING. PRICING AND AVAILABILITY SUBJECT TO CHANGE'

Sourcewell Cooperative Contract# 011723-CAT 2025

F.O.B/TERMS: 4425 Dudley Blvd, McClellan Park, CA 95652

This quote is good for (10) days. Any machine quoted outside of HOLT of CALIFORNIA's inventory is subject to revision. All quotes are subject to credit
approval and prior sale. Any quoted interest rates are subject to change w ithout notice. The quote is void unless the machine is delivered, and remains
within HOLT of CALIFORNIA'S Dealership territory for two years or unless the machine has at least 1000 hours if delivered outside of Holt's territory.

THE ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS ON THE REVERSE SIDE ARE PART OF AND INCORPRORATED IN THIS AGREEMENT. THIS AGREEMENT
SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED ENFORCEABLE UNTIL ACCEPTED BY HOLT AND EXECUTED BY ITS OFFICE. ANY INDIVIDUAL SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT
REPRESENTS AND WARRANTES THAT HE/SHE IS AT LEAST 18 YEARS OLD AND HAS THE AUTHORITY TO BIND CUSTOMER TO THE TERMS OF THE
AGREEMENT.

Accepted by _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ __ _ _ _ __ _ __                                        Date._ _ _ _ __ __
              (Please Print)


Signature

Sincerely,
Jake Sclater
Territory Manager
Holt of California
jsclater@holtca.com
Cell: 916-240-2814




                                                                                                                                               Page 3 of 3
                                                                                                                                                              P13
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   1         I
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~.at
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief




       DATE:           August 14th, 2025

       TO:             Board of Directors

       SUBJECT:        Surplus Equipment



                                                      TOPIC


                             Disposal of the District's IT capital asset equipment.


                                                FISCAL IMPACT

                                 There will not be a fiscal impact to the District.

                                              RECOMMENDATION

                 Staff recommends the Board of Director's approve the disposal of the District's
                                      I.T. Divisions' surplus equipment.


       Submitted by:                                          Approved by:




       Matthew Roseberry                                      Joseph Fiorica
       Director of Technology                                 Deputy Chief, Administration


       ATTACHMENTS:

       Attachment 1: Resolution Agreement and List of Capital Assets




                                       Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                                   P14
                             Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
  l               I             10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700


lfi,ar
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief




                                               RESOLUTION NO. 2025-XXX

      A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT I.T.
                               EQUIPMENT


         WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political
  subdivision of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant
  to the State constitution and laws; and

        WHEREAS, the Districfs I.T. Division has old and unused capital assets that need
  to be E-Wasted; and

         WHEREAS, the district requires all resolution of capitpl assets to be presented
  to the board for approval to E-Waste.

        NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of
  the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District does hereby approve the resolution of IT
  equipment, as set forth in the attached Exhibit "A".

   Exhibit A:
                                                                                        DISPOSAL        FAIR
       INCODE                ACQUISITION                                                METHOD         MARKET         RED INV

       ASSET II          DATE           COST       DESCRIPTION        SERIAL NO       DISPOSAL DATE     VALUE         TAG NO

                                                 Data911                             E-Wast e
        3884          05/22/2006     $6,462.80                         22428                             $0           501311
                                                 Computer System                        08/14/25
                                                 Data911                             E-Waste
        4778          11/ 03/2016    $6,462.80                         40140                              $0          501246
                                                 Computer System                        08/14/25
                                                 Data911                             E-Waste
        4784          11/03/2016     $6,462.80                         40146                              $0          501317
                                                 Computer Syst em                       08/14/25




                                           Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
Resolution 2025-:XXX
Page2


    PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 14th day of August 2025. I, MARNI
RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular
meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:


                                   SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                  By: - - - -- - - -- - - - --
                                      President, Board of Directors

ATTEST:



Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board




                                                                                              P16
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l         I
                      10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~u,~
ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief



       DATE:         August 14, 2025

       TO:           Board of Directors

       SUBJECT:      Extending the Medical Coverage Benefit Program for Sacramento County
                     Employees' Retirement System (SCERS) Retirees who retired from North
                     Highlands and Florin Fire District.


                                                   TOPIC

       Consider Adopting a Resolution authorizing the District to continue subsidizing medical
       premiums for former North Highlands and Florin Fire District employees or their
       beneficiaries who retired from SCERS.


                                              BACKGROUND

       On August 13, 2020, the District adopted Resolution 2020-043, which extended funding for
       the annuitant medical coverage benefits program for former employees who retired under
       SCERS. This resolution authorized the continuation of the District's subsidy through July 1,
       2025.

       With the expiration of the current resolution, the District must evaluate whether to continue
       providing this subsidy. If the proposed Resolution is not adopted, nine (9) former North
       Highlands and Florin Fire District employees, or their eligible beneficiaries, will lose their
       current SCERS medical benefit premium subsidy effective July 1, 2025.


                                              FISCAL IMPACT

       Continuing the subsidy into Fiscal Year 2025/26 is projected to cost the District $52,650.48.
       Beginning July 1, 2026, a 5% cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) is scheduled to apply
       annually through June 30, 2030.


                                           RECOMMENDATION

       Recommend that the Board adopt the attached Resolution authorizing the continuation of
       medical premium subsidy for the affected SCERS retirees, at the amounts identified in
       Exhibit "A".




                                     Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                             Pl /
Page 2




         /-d. a. ~4,___-- ___,
         Submitted by:                                        Approved by:



                                                              Adam House
           puty Chief, Administration                         Fire Chief



         ATTACHMENTS:

         Attachment 1: Resolution (Always the first attachment)




                                        Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                 Pl8
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief

                              RESOLUTION NO. 2025-XXX

     A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
   ADOPTING FUNDING FOR THE ANNUITANT MEDICAL COVERAGE BENEFITS
        PROGRAM FOR FORMER EMPLOYEES RETIRED UNDER SCERS
             (Sacramento County Employees Retirement System)

        WHEREAS, the North Highlands and Florin Fire Protection Districts were
  members of SCERS prior to their respective reorganizations with the Citrus Heights and
  American River Fire Protection Districts; and

           WHEREAS, prior to July 1, 2004, SCERS annuitant medical coverage costs had
   historically been subsidized annually by "excess" earnings from SCERS investments; and

           WHEREAS, in making those annual subsidy payments, the SCERS Board stated
   that this subsidy was not a vested retirement benefit, and

          WHEREAS, at their meeting of November 20, 2003, the SCERS Board made a
   finding that no funds were available from SCERS earnings for the annuitant medical
   coverage subsidy program for Fiscal Year 2004/05; and

           WHEREAS, on June 23, 2004, the District adopted Resolution 34-04 funding the
   annuitant medical coverage costs for former North Highlands and Florin Fire Protection
   District members of SCERS equal to the subsidy previously provided by SCERS "excess"
   earnings; and

         WHEREAS, on May 16, 2005, SCERS informed the District that its earnings for
   2004/05 will not produce the "excess" previously used to subsidize annuitant medical
   coverage costs; and

         WHEREAS, on April 19, 2005, the Sacramento County Board of Supervisors
   approved Resolution 2005-0491 extending the County's medical coverage subsidy for its
   annuitants through December 31, 2006; and

         WHEREAS, on June 22, 2005, the District adopted Resolution 22-05 extending
   the District funding for the annuitant medical coverage benefits program for former
   employees retired under SCERS through July 1, 2010.

         WHEREAS, on May 13, 2010, the District adopted Resolution 2010-58 extending
   the District funding for the annuitant medical coverage benefits program for former
   employees retired under SCERS through July 1, 2015.



                              Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                        P19
RESOLUTION NO. 2025-:XXX
pg. 2

      WHEREAS, on July 9, 2015, the District adopted Resolution 2015-68 extending
the District funding for the annuitant medical coverage benefits program for former
employees retired under SCERS through July 1, 2020.

       WHEREAS, on August 13, 2020, the District adopted Resolution 2020-043
extending the District funding for the annuitant medical coverage benefits program for
forrner employees retired under SCERS through July 1, 2025.

      WHEREAS, the projected annual outlay for the District to fund the medical
coverage costs for its SCERS annuitants during Fiscal Year 2025/26 is $52,650.48.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT, the Board of Directors for the
Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District hereby authorizes and directs the payment of
medical coverage for former North Highlands and Florin Fire Protection District annuitants
from District funds, as identified on Exhibit "A" of this resolution, with a 5% cost of living
adjustment (COLA) annually beginning on July 1, 2025.

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT, on July 1, 2030, and every 5 years
thereafter, the District shall evaluate the adequacy of its medical coverage for former
North Highlands and Florin Fire Protection District annuitants.

      PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 14th day of August 2025. I, MARNI
RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular
meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:


                                    SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                    By: - -- - - - -- - - - - - -
                                        President, Board of Directors

ATTEST:


Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board

Attachments:
Exhibit A: SCERS Medical Premiums



                                                                                                 P20
RESOLUTION NO. 2025-XXX
pg. 3


                                   EXHIBIT "A"



                              SCERS Medical Premiums

   Years of     Fiscal Year     Fiscal Year   Fiscal Year   Fiscal Year   Fiscal Year
   SCERS          2025/26         2026/27       2027/28       2028/29       2029/30
   Service        Monthly         Monthly       Monthly      Monthly       Monthly
    Credit       Subsidy         Subsidy       Subsidy       Subsidy       Subsidy
 Less than 10
                 $266.32          $279.63      $293.61       $308.30       $323.71
    years
 10 years but
 less than 15    $331.79          $348.38      $365.80       $384.09       $403.30
    years
 15 years but
 less than 20    $397.27          $417.13      $437.99       $459.89       $482.89
    years
 20 years but
 less than 25    $462.76          $485.90      $510._19      $535.70       $562.49
    years
  25 years or
                 $532.62          $559.25      $587.21       $616.58       $647._
                                                                                40
     more




                                                                                     P21
