Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
Tuesday, September 19, 2023 – 6:30 p.m.

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Lefkovitz called the regular meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Other Board members
present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Alfred Brown, Harold Fong (arrived at 7:38 p.m.),
Heather Davis, Joanne Ahola, and Paul Keefer.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Acting
General Counsel Elizabeth Linton; Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer; Assistant
Superintendent Jacqueline White; Executive Directors Michael Kast, Xanthi Soriano, and Jerry
Jones; Director Shanine Coats, and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Brown led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

No Public Comments

B. Employee Organizations

There were no requests from employee organizations.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. No Minutes

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to adopt the agenda as presented by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Not Present at Vote: Trustee Fong

5. Official Correspondence


 09.19.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            1
A. No Official Correspondence

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

NEW BUSINESS
We are happy to share that the Sacramento County Office of Education (SCOE) has been
awarded a $25 million statewide grant referred to as Project CALL, a literacy training and
coaching grant that SCOE will execute in partnership with the Napa County Office of
Education. This grant will be a game-changer in literacy for the state as both SCOE and
Napa are grounded in the Science of Reading. This win builds upon SCOE’s portfolio on
providing literacy leadership to instruct literacy coaches and reading specialists throughout
the state and helps support our local literacy initiatives.

As we make progress with re-imagining schools as Centers of Wellness, SCOE was also
awarded a $400 million grant to implement a fee schedule for Medi-Cal school-based
mental health related reimbursements. SCOE will help design the fee schedule model and
provide statewide technical assistance in partnership with the Santa Clara County Office of
Education.

KUDOS
On September 12, SCOE’s Executive Director for District & School Support, Channa Cook,
represented SCOE as a featured author with four other acclaimed authors through the
UCLA Center for the Transformation of Schools to discuss America's foundational policies,
giving children a voice, and the “whole child approach” to education policy. The webinar
featured the book, “Our Children Can't Wait: America’s History, Making Children a National
Priority, & the Whole Child Approach.”

On September 13, Trustee Corona Sabeniano and Channa Cook were recognized at the
15th Annual Exceptional Women of Color (EWOC) Awards and Expo Night. Trustee
Corona Sabeniano was announced as a 2023 honoree for exceptional leadership in
politics and government relations and Channa Cook was recognized as the EWOC
Educator of the Year. Thank you, President Lefkovitz, for being there to support our
honorees and congratulations to both.

LEADERSHIP
This past week, the College and Career Department launched a new Community of
Practice (CoP) for school counselors where participants learn to improve their skills
through regular interaction. The group’s first workshop was held in partnership with
SCOE’s Prevention and Early Intervention Department and addressed suicide prevention,
coinciding with National Suicide Prevention Week. A series of free workshops is planned
throughout the school year for current counselors, new counselors, and site administrators
across the Sacramento region. Our second annual Counselor Institute will be held at
California State University, Sacramento in the Spring.



 09.19.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             2
Early Learning Professional Learning Network—While counselors convened in the Mather
Room, the Early Learning Department hosted an in-person meeting for Early Learning
District and Charter Leaders on September 12, facilitated by Julie Montali’s Early Learning
team, Christine Smith and Steven Hicks. The meeting was part of a series specific to this
group as part of the Universal Prekindergarten technical assistance being provided by
SCOE. Early Learning leaders from Elk Grove USD, Folsom Cordova USD, Gateway
Community Charters, Highlands Community Charter, Natomas USD, Natomas Charter,
Sacramento City USD, San Juan USD, and Twin Rivers USD were in attendance.

Next week, our SEL team starts their Social-Emotional Learning CoP that features our
partners from the UCLA Center for the Developing Adolescent. The first meeting will be
held on September 28 and will feature practical insights from adolescent development
research. Together, we will consider how we can equitably support our young people in
developing a healthy sense of identity, agency, belonging, curiosity, and collaborative
problem solving that will help them to thrive from the classroom through adulthood.

UPCOMING EVENTS
Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School will hold their Back to School Night on September 20.
A BBQ meal prepared by our Culinary Arts' students will be served at 5:30 p.m.

SCOE representatives for literacy are attending the upcoming Sacramento Literacy
Foundation film, “The Right to Read,” at the Guild Theater on September 28.

On September 30, in partnership with the Sacramento Literacy Coalition, several SCOE
representatives will be at the Sacramento Literacy Festival at the Oak Park Farmer's
Market in support of helping our local youth become fully proficient and avid readers.

Also on September 30, SCOE will host a Recruitment Fair to attract a diverse pool of
candidates to fill primarily paraeducator and teacher positions. The event will be held in the
David P. Meaney Education Center.

On October 4, the California Dyslexia Initiative is hosting a professional learning network
(PLN) to give educators the opportunity to collaborate, share knowledge, and learn from
leading experts. It is presented by SCOE in partnership with the California Department of
Education (CDE), the California Collaborative for Educational Excellence (CCEE), and the
California State Board of Education (SBE).

Also on October 4, we will host our Sacramento County School Boards Association dinner.
Our keynote speaker is renowned literacy expert, Dr. Tracy White Weeden - we will hear
and discuss her speech entitled “Literacy: The Human Right of the 21st Century.” The next
day, on October 5, we will hold the first of our five literacy CoPs.

On October 11, SCOE is helping to organize another opportunity with MENTOR California
where we bring together artists and mentors who inspire and work with youth through “The
Stories We Tell.” The event will be held at the Brickhouse Gallery & Art Complex.

October 12 is the Palmiter Culinary Café opening for the 2023–2024 school year. Of
special note, the Culinary Café is celebrating its 25th year of excellence in culinary


 09.19.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                              3
education.

On Saturday, October 14, the Sacramento Republic FC is partnering with SCOE to
celebrate the 2024 Sacramento County Teachers of the Year (TOY) and the 2023
Sacramento County Classified Employees of the Year (CSEY). The game will be held at
Heart Health Park on the grounds of Cal Expo. A tailgate celebration starts at 5:30 p.m.
TOY and CSEY honorees will be recognized before the Sacramento Republic FC match
against the Miami FC.

7. Youth Presentation

A. Behavioral Health Youth Advisory Board - David W. Gordon

Superintendent Gordon introduced the Behavioral Health Youth Advisory Board (BHYAB)
presentation lead by BHYAB Youth Presenters: Natanya Kharat - District 4, Freshman at
UC Davis, Board Secretary; Jordan Kaitapu - District 5, Cordova High Alumni Class of
2020, Vice Chair; and Radha Chauhan - 11th grade student at Sacramento Country Day
High School, Associate Board Member.

8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Corona
Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Not Present at Vote: Trustee Fong

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White/Michael
Kast

Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White announced that four students will be awarded
diplomas, including one candidate from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. Senior Extension, one
candidate from Cordova Lane Senior Extension, one candidate from El Centro Jr./Sr. High
School, and one candidate from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension.

9. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve contracts as presented by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola


 09.19.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            4
Not Present at Vote: Trustee Fong

10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget -
David W. Gordon

A. STEAM Hub 21st Century Community Learning Center (CCLC) Science, Technology,
Engineering, Art, and Mathematics (STEAM Hub) for Expanded Learning Grant, Year 10 -
Brent Malicote

Motion by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano to authorize submission
of grant applications/service contracts and accept funding if awarded; and approve
contracts, positions, and other expenditures associated with the grants as outline in the
proposed budget.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Not Present at Vote: Trustee Fong

11. New Business - Other

A. Resolution No. 23-12 - Calling for Election of Trustees to the Sacramento County Board
of Education on March 5, 2024 - Elizabeth Linton

Motion to adopt Resolution No. 23-12 - Calling for Election of Trustees to the Sacramento
County Board of Education on March 5, 2024 with a maximum of 400 words by Trustee
Ahola, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Not Present at Vote: Trustee Fong

C. American River Collegiate Academy Charter School Annual Report - Dr. Nancy Herota

Dr. Nancy Herota introduced Consultant Shela Seaton to present the American River
Collegiate Academy (ARCA) Charter School Annual Report to the Board.

President Lefkovitz introduced ARCA Superintendent Robin Stout who presented on
behalf of ARCA. Suzy Parrett, Principal, and Ace Ensign, Director of Finance, also
presented. The following individuals from ARCA were present to answer questions: Wendy
Mitchell, Education Services, Kristel Kamrar, TOSA, and Mona Rodgers, Special
Education.

D. NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING and Action on Resolution No. 23-13 to Approve
Proposed September 19, 2023 Material Revision to American River Collegiate Academy
(ARCA) Charter School Petition - Nicolas Schweizer



 09.19.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             5
This item was presented by Associate Superintendent Nick Schweizer.

The Public Hearing opened at 8:27 p.m.

There was one person present to make public comment unrelated to the ARCA item.
President Lefkovitz explained public comment procedures and offered to speak with the
individual after the meeting adjourned.

The Public Hearing closed at 8:29 p.m.

Motion by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Davis to adopt Resolution No. 23-13
approving the material revision to the ARCA charter petition.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
No: Trustee Fong

12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Fong apologized for arriving late and explained that he was unavoidably
commuting from San Jose today.

Trustee Davis - no report.

Trustee Brown stated that he went to the California County Boards of Education (CCBE)
Conference in Monterey last weekend and attended a session focused on solving the
teacher shortage. He commented that there are people in our school districts eligible to
become teachers if they receive teacher training, such as bus drivers, secretaries, and
classified employees. He also participated in a Farm to Fork event in his community, and
he is co-president of Kiwanis, which recently awarded several turn-around scholarships to
students.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano reported that she attended the CCBE Conference where she
participated in sessions around student safety (mental health, gun safety, etc.). She
learned that some COEs engage in countywide collaborations with the Board of
Supervisors, Police, Fire, Mental Health Providers and Community Colleges - all centered
around promoting student safety. They conduct summits and monthly meetings to learn
about new ways to support students, and they help foster youth in their professional
journey. She also spoke about the upcoming Emerge Summit and encouraged young
professionals and anyone to attend.

Trustee Keefer stated that he appreciated the presentation by the BHYAB. He commented
that many solutions for behavioral health and homelessness seem to be directed toward
external paid physicians and volunteers. He encouraged solutions to look toward engaging
families, and to provide supports to parents and families, to help them to assist their



 09.19.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             6
children. He commented that the BHYAB student presenters are brave, and that they are
trying to do the work of adults.

Trustee Ahola - no report.

B. Board President

President Lefkovitz went to the Hispanic Chamber State of Hispanics event which kicked
off Hispanic Cultural Month. She commented that Hispanics are the fastest growing
subgroup in the state and are 24 percent of the county population. Three of our college
presidents are Latino for the first time, and they spoke at the event. One business group
who spoke at the event is offering 600 apprenticeships to diversify its workforce. The
Chamber invited elected leaders to work with the Chamber, and President Lefkovitz is
considering setting up a follow-up meeting. She also stated that she attended the San
Juan USD Board meeting where there was a discussion about applying for an anti-bias
grant, which would support student voice and create identity groups on the campuses.
There was an hour of testimony and a lot of push back from the community. The Board
ended up voting 5-1 in support of the grant. President Lefkovitz commented that SCOE
needs to double down on our DEI work and applauds San Juan USD for proceeding with
this grant. She reported that she attended the CCBE Conference, and that Monterey COE
publishes an annual report, which she shared. She co-facilitated a session on shared
governance at the conference.

Superintendent Gordon expressed appreciation to Shanine Coats for coaching and helping
the BHYAB students prepare for the meeting.

President Lefkovitz closed by reading from 916 Ink’s Behind the Brickwall written by an El
Centro student.

C. Committees

No Reports

13. Items for Distribution

A. September/October Events and Site Visits

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. October 3, 2023 and October 17, 2023

15. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

President Lefkovitz requested that the meeting be adjourned in memory of Meredith
Geeting, daughter of Greg Geeting.



 09.19.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                              7
Motion to adjourn meeting in memory of Meredith Geeting by Trustee Brown, second by
Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola, Fong

The meeting was adjourned at 8:48 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




 09.19.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                       8
