       l           I
                       Sac ramento Metropolitan Fire District
   lfiu1~               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700

  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                             Thursday, April 10, 2025 - 6:00 PM
Ted Wood
                                            Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                   10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4
                                                 Board Room - Second Floor
John Costa                                            Mather, California
Board Vice President                                          &
Division 9
                                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                   Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                     Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                    ir Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member            https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Division 1


Grant Goold
Board Member
                       The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, edµcation and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D'Elman Clark
Board Member
                       Application, please click on the link above.
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member
                       accommodations:
Division 8
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                      THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 2025


► CALL TO ORDER

► ROLL CALL

► PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro141ive.saccounty.gov. Today's meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
April 14, 2025, and again at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, April 16, 2025, on Metro Cable
Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand at
voutube. comlmetrocable 14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers' comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                    Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                              5
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of March 27, 2025.

2.     Adopt Resolution - Budget Amendment - SHSGP23 Grant Amendment               10
       Recommendation: Adopt Resolution to amend the Midyear Budget for Grants Fund
       212G for the Fiscal Year 2024/25.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                   THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 2025


PRESENTATION ITEMS:
1.   Strategic Planning: Capital Improvement Projects                                                                   12
     (Jeff Frye, Chief Development Officer)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation.

2.   Capital Improvement Program Update                                                                                 24
     (Erin Castleberry, Administrative Analyst)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation.

REPORTS:

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Chief House)

           OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
            ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)
            SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

3.   SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
     522 Vice President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

     A.    Executive Committee - (President Wood)
           Next Meeting: TBD

     B.     Communications Center JPA - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)
            Next Meeting: April 22, 2025 at 9:00 AM
            SRFECC Annex - 10240 Systems Pkwy. Suite B, Sacramento

     C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
            Next Meeting: April 24, 2025 at 5:30 PM

     D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
            Next Meeting: May 8, 2025 at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS
                      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                      10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (91 6) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                           THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 2025



CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter:

1. PURSUANT ,TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (A) -
   ONE (1) MATTER OF WORKERS COMPENSATION SETTLEMENT AUTHORITY.

    1.       Steven Thorns and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
             Claim # SMDQ-550289 - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
             Tyler Sonksen of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

    •    Regular Board Meeting - April 24, 2025 at 6:00 PM

Posted on April 7, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.




Clerk of the Board
** No written report
1:Elll Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility to this meeting.
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702
lfi,;~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief       ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                                BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                        SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                   Thursday, March 27, 2025
                                Held at the following locations:
                            10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                      Mather, California
                                                 &
                                         Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:03 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold, Jones, Rice, Saylors, Stark, Webber, and Wood. Board members
  absent: None. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  No public comments were received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Jones seconded by Goold and carried unanimously by members present
  to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.      Action Summary Minutes
          Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
          of March 13, 2025.
          Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.      California Employers' Pension Prefunding Trust (CEPPT) Program
          Agreement and Election with CalPERS
          Recommendation: Approve the CEPPT agreement and election with CalPERS and
          authorize the disbursement of deposited funds by approving the Delegation of Authority to
          Request Disbursement form.
          Action: Approved.

  3.      Adopt Resolution - Temporary Construction Easement - Watt/Myrtle
          Recommendation : Adopt Resolution granting a Temporary Construction Easement to
          County of Sacramento.
          Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-014.




                                                                                                             P5
4.    Adopt Resolution - Contract Award Recommendation - Bond & Disclosure Counsel
      Services
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the award of RFP 25-02: Bond and
      Disclosure Counsel to Stradling, LLP, and authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to
      negotiate, execute, and administer a professional services agreement materially similar to
      the attached agreement for the provision of bond and disclosure counsel services for a
      five-year period, with option to extend for up to five additional one-year periods.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-015.

5.    Adopt Resolution - Surplus I.T. Equipment
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving disposal of the District's 1.T. Division's
      surplus equipment.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-016.

PRESENTATION ITEMS

1.    Metro Fire Stewardship Report CY 2024
      (Danielle Buri-Beaton, Sr. Vice President of Client Services - lntercare Insurance Services)
      Re.commendation: Receive presentation.
      Action: Presentation received.
2.    2024 EMS Review
      (EMS Division)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation.
      Action: Presentation received. There was a lengthy discussion on mental health
      responses without law enforcement.

3.    Strategic Planning: Fire Chief Vision & Priorities
      (Jeff Frye, Chief Development Officer)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation.
      Action: Presentation received.

The Board took a brief recess from 8:36 to 8:41 p.m.

4.    2025 Service Delivery Plan
      (Jeff Frye, Chief Development Officer & Jake Wheaten, Geographic Information Data
      Analyst)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation.
      Action: Presentation received.

ACTION ITEMS:

1.    Adopt Resolutions - Pre-Qualification of General Contractors - Fire Station 67
      Project
      (Erin Castleberry, Administrative Analyst)
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution establishing a pre-qualification system for the
      Fire Station 67 project, using the proposed Request for Qualifications.
      Action: Moved by Director Goold, seconded by Clark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-017 establishing a pre-qualification
      system for the Fire Station 67 project, using the proposed Request for Qualifications.



3.27.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 2 of 5     P6
• 2.     California Special District Association (CSDA) Board of Directors Call for
         Nominations - Sierra Network - Seat 8
         Recommendation: Consider nominating a Metro Fire Boa~d Member or managerial
         employee for nomination to the CSDA - Sierra Network, Seat B for possible election to
         the California Special District Association Board of Directors.
         Action: None.

  REPORTS

  1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

         No Report

  2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -         (Chief House)

  Good evening, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public.

  Health & Wellness Fair
  A big thank you to Coach for putting this successful event together-it was a great day for our
  members and their families. The inaugural Health & Wellness Fair took place today and
  featured expert speakers and vendors, free health evaluations, and practical tools to support
  long-term wellness. We had a strong turnout and positive feedback from those who attended.

  Fresno Training Symposium
  Metro Fire participated in the Fresno Symposium last week, presenting on incident command,
  priorities, strategies, and risk mitigation. The course provided a consistent process for
  decision-making and managing dynamic emergency scenes. Last week's symposium
  featured 39 instructors and over 600 students, with 15 from Metro Fire.

  Zinfandel Groundbreaking
  Metro Fire will break ground on Phase 3 of the Zinfandel Training Facility tomorrow at 9:30
  a.m., advancing plans to relocate our Training Division and Recruit Academies by Spring
  2026. This milestone is supported by $13 million in state and $1 million in federal funding,
  thanks to key partners including former Assemblymember Cooley, Local 522, and
  Congressman Bera. A larger celebration is planned for next year's grand opening.

  OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

  Shift Comman~er Spotlight:

  AC Keeley and AC Rudnicki recognized CQI Manager Adam Blitz by awarding him a
  Commendation for his unwavering dedication, expertise, and leadership in continuous quality
  improvement in EMS. Adam has been instrumental in creating a new EMS culture that
  mentors, supports, educates, and improves the skills, knowfedge, and abilities of all
  paramedics.

  ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)

   No Report



   3.27.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 3 of 5     P7
SUPPORT SERIVES - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

No Report

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
     Captain Sean Scollard asked President Wood if we could hold a moment of silence for El
     Dorado County Fire Marshal Lucas Shepard, who passed away. I believe what I heard
     this evening is a misunderstanding of what labor feels is true collaboration. We feel an
     example of true collaboration is what we have been doing with Workers' Compensation
     and being involved from the beginning including with the RFP and the collaboration we
     have had with Human Resources and lntercare. That is not what I am seeing in all areas
     of this organization. What I see is a Special District turning into a City and adding more
     bureaucratic red tape instead of taking advantage that we are a Special District. It is
     extremely frustrating. We want to be involved before purchases are made for Measure 0
     because we can provide a unique perspective to those purchases.

4.      COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
        All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire Distlict Board Room,
        10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

        A.      Executive Committee - (President Wood)

                 No Report

        B.      Communications Center JPA - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)
                The Communications Center JPA Board last met two days ago, on March 25,
                2025 in these chambers. The following matter was discussed:

                 The Comm Center has completed the tenant. improvements of their new annex
                 located on the same parcel as the Comm Center. With the opening of the new
                 annex building there will no longer be a need to hold the JPA Board meetings in
                 these chambers. The Comm Center JPA Board would like to thank you and
                 Metro Fire for the use of this facility.

                 There was no other reportable action. The next meeting is scheduled for
                 Tuesday, April 8th at 0900 at the Comm Center annex.

         C.      Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
                 No Report

        D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)

                 No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Jones thanked all the Metro Fire staff who assisted in hosting the CALAF CO Retreat
last week in these chambers. Everyone was extremely complementary to Metro Fire and
staff who helped make the retreat a success.


3.27.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                         Page 4 of 5   PB
Director Rice asked if the District has a policy on using body cameras or the use of body
camera footage in disciplinary processes. Chief House responded that he doesn't believe we
have a policy. Director Rice requested that the Policy Committee develop a policy on both
body cameras and Ring cameras footage and the use of that footage.       ,
Director Goold requested that we also include a moment of silence for slain Marysville Police
Officer Osmar Rodarte. To our men and women, please exercise caution and scene safety
and think about your crews.
Director Clark thanked staff for the presentations and discussions tonight.

Director Costa echoed Director Clark's comments. Thank you to Station 51 crews who
hosted me. Congratulations to the graduates of the Metro Medic Program 25-1, it was a
                       \
great event. .
President Wood echoed the same comment as Director Costa that he attended the Metro
Medic Program 25-1 Graduation . El Dorado County lost Fire Marshal Lucas Shepard
unexpectedly and he was an outstanding firefighter, captain and ultimately a division chief
and I had the pleasure of working with him for the last two and a half years in my day job.
With that we'll take a moment of silence for Officer Rodarte and Fire Marshal Shepard .

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 9:27 p.m . on the following matters:

1.     CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - PENDING LITIGATION -
       PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9(d)(1)
       Ty Bailey v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
       EAMS No. ADJ 18553924 and ADJ 20643634

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened to open session at 10:31 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
the Board met in closed session on one item: 1. Conference with Legal Counsel, Pending
Litigation, no reportable action was taken.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2025-03-27-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 10:32 p.m.


Ted Wood, President                                 Robert Webber, Secretary


Marni Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk
                                                                               Page 5 of 5
                                                                                                pg
3.27.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                      10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief

     DATE:           April 10, 2025

     TO:             Board of Directors

     SUBJECT:        Budget Amendment - SHSGP23 Grant Amendment

                                             TOPIC
     Adopt a budget amendment for Grants Fund 212G for FY2024/25.

                                           BACKGROUND
     On September 12, 2024, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's (District) Board of Directors
     (Board) adopted Resolution 2024-110 to accept a FY2023 State Homeland Security Grant Award
     (SHSGP23) in the amount of $153,200. The SHSGP23 grant award included an a_llocation of
     $18,200 for the Community Emergency Response Team (CERT) supply cache project, which
     included $15,000 for equipment and $3,200 for supplies.

                                              DISCUSSION
     The District completed the approved scope of the CERT supply cache project underbudget,
     leaving approximately $3,508 in unspent funds. The District worked with CERT to identify
     additional needs in order to utilize the unspent funds in accordance with the purpose of the
     SHSGP23 grant. A grant amendment was submitted to the awarding agency, Sacramento County
     Office of E;mergency Services (Sac OES), seeking approval to utilize the unspent funds on
     additional scope. The District received approval for the scope amendment from Sac OES on
     March 18; 2025.

     In order to move forward with completing the amended scope, Board approval is requ ired to
     reallocate budgeted grant expenditures between the equipment and supply object lines. The
     proposed budget amendment would reallocate $2,927 out of the equipment line and into the
     supply line to cover the approved amended scope.

                                            FISCAL IMPACT 1
     There is no fiscal impact for the proposed budget amendment; simply a reallocation of funds
     between object lines.
                                        RECOMMENDATION
     Staff recommends·adoption of the attached resolution to amend the Midyear Budget for Grants
     Fund 212G for the Fiscal Year 2024/25.

     Su~mitted by:                                          Approved by:,_

      7,&.~                                                  C.
                                                            Jeff(
                                                                                 -·
     Erin Castleberry
     Administrative Analyst                                 Chi          opment Officer

     ATTACHMENTS:
     Attachment 1: Resolution Adopting a Budget Amendment to the Midyear Budget for Grants
                   Fund 212G for the Fiscal Year 2024/25



                                      Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                               P10
                      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
  1        I          10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700


~.@'
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                       RESOLUTION NO. 2025-XXX
       A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METRO POLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                     ADOPTING A BUDGET AMENDMENT
              TO THE MIDYEAR BUDGET FOR GRANTS FUND 212G
                       FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2024/25
           WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political subdivision
   of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant to the State
   constitution and laws; and
        WHEREAS, the District has accepted a FY2023 State Homeland Security Grant Award in
  the amount of $153,200; and

          WHEREAS, a reallocation of budgeted funds is required to complete the SHSGP23 CERT
   Supply Cache project; and
         WHEREAS, on March 13, 2025 the District adopted the Midyear Budget for Grants Fund
   212G for FY2024/25, which did not include this change.
          THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, in accordance with Section 13890 of the Health and
   Safety Code, the Midyear Budget for the Grants Fund 212G for the FY2024/25 will be and is
   hereby further amended in accordance with the following:
                                                                                              FY2024/25
                      FUND               COST                                                 INCREASE
   ACCOUNT      FUND CENTER             CENTER            ACCOUNT CATEGORY                    (DECREASE)
   43430300     212G  2126000           2126000000        EQUIPMENT                                 (2,927)
   20289800     212G  2126000           2126000000        OTHER SUPPLIES                             2,927

          BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the means of financing the expenditure program will
   be by monies derived from all revenue sources and fund balance available.
         PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 10th day of April, 2025. I, MARNI
   RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT HEREBY
   CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting of the
   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

   AYES:
   NOES:
   ABSENT:
   ABSTAIN:
                                             SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT

                                             By: - -- - - -- - -                   -
                                                 President, Board of Directors
   ATTEST:       -'


   Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
   Clerk of the Board

                                   Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                              P11
                                          N
                                          T"""
                                          a..




Strategic Planning: Capital
  Improvement Projects

              Presented by:
   Jeff Frye, Chief Development Officer
                                             en
                                             T"""
                                             a..




• Provide context for CIP project requests
• Reporting and Communications
  • Board Awareness ,
  • Preparation for Oversight Committee
  • Project list to Members
• Answer questions
                 /
                                 o:::t"
                                 ,-
                                 a..




\




    Fleet Projects

     FY 25/26 through FY 29/30
                                                                       I.()
                                                                       ,-
                                                                       a..




• Annual Process with 5 steps
  • Update Fleet Inventory by Apparatus Type
  • Update Procurement Schedule with Assumptions (Lead Times)
  • Update Acquisition Costs with Inflation factors
  • Information from Inventory, Procurement Schedule and Acquisition
    Costs populates the Replacement Schedule.
  • Replacement Schedule is used to complete CIP forms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T"""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a..




~~~,1. ~N~o✓~ R ep Iacemen t S che d uIe
       ~_.""~
 FIR:£

                                                                                                                                   ··-,- .-,•   ..    .. -...
                                                        IYear                                Yr1         2')25 l Yr2     2')2&  I Yr3    2llZ1 I Yr•      2ll2! I Yrs     2')29     sv..r
                                                                                            Vehicles j Co:t JVohlclcs t Co,t IVohlclc, I Co:t IVthlclc: : Cost !Vehicles: Cost       Tobi
                                                        rAmbulance                             9     i $3,168,0001 8   52~56,800'  8 I SJ,104,5401 8 : S3.259,872i 8 I $3,422,866 $15,912,178
                                                        jSquada                                1        $302,000   1    $317,100   1                         r
                                                                                                                                         $332.9551 1 I $349,603    0            SO $1~01,658
                                                        Englnn


         • 5 Yr Replacement Schedule                    t
                                                        j
                                                            :T)Pol
                                                            'T)Po n1
                                                            'T)POV
                                                                              - -1-           5
                                                                                              4
                                                                                              4
                                                                                                       56,260,0001
                                                                                                     I $2,608,000
                                                                                                       $1,308,000
                                                                                                                        _5
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                              _ $8,573,000

                                                                                                                                  $1~30,050
                                                                                                                                            SO
                                                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                             !~~ -5
                                                                                                                                                              J
                                                                                                                                                                     52~75~20
                                                                                                                                                                           $0
                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                0 :
                                                                                                                                                                                     $7,246,7331
                                                                                                                                                                                     $3,019,086
                                                                                                                                                                                             SO
                                                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              O      :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S7,609,0691S34,590,452
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SO 58,502,406
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SO $2,338,050
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .


                                                        !Trucks                                                                                              •             .. - ·- -

           • Full 1Oyr plan will clear deferred             _    Stick               __ _ _• 0 _          _ SO          1. _ 51~97,100                1              52,096,9551    1_        52,201,80311               52.311,893 58,607,75.1
                                                                :rnor                        1         $2.252.000       0           SO                O      ,               SO     O      SO                 O      '           SO 52,252,000
             replacement schedule                                Ro:euo
                                                                ,Ho,mot
                                                                                             1
                                                                                             1
                                                                                                       51,702,000
                                                                                                       51,702.000
                                                                                                                         0 ,
                                                                                                                         0  .-
                                                                                                                                    SO
                                                                                                                                    SO
                                                                                                                                                      O
                                                                                                                                                      O
                                                                                                                                                             :
                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                             SO
                                                                                                                                                                             SO
                                                                                                                                                                                    O
                                                                                                                                                                                    O     ~
                                                                                                                                                                                           SO                 O
                                                                                                                                                                                                              O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SO $1,702,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SO 51,702,000
                                                            SUV.
           • Yr 1 expenditure is roughly double but         ISW                                s __J    S380.oool       3          5239,4001          2      ~ 5 8 01               3          ..S263.939T~ S184,7S71 51,235,675                        1




             delivery will distributed to reduce        ·-
                                                        1~1o1o1p,
                                                             Pickup                    _ _     2        5140,000        2           5147,000          0           _          ~ . _ o_ _              !-0 . _~ .                       SO     5287,000


             workload impact
                                                        I    H,,.,,,Pickup
                                                        - - Scl\icoPickup
                                                                                               O
                                                                                            - ,-- - -
                                                                                                    $205,000
                                                                                                               SO       O
                                                                                                                        0-
                                                                                                                                           SO
                                                                                                                                           SO
                                                                                                                                                O
                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                           SO
                                                                                                                                                   , 5225,013 -
                                                                                                                                                                                    O
                                                                                                                                                                                    0     -     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                     SO
                                                                                                                                                                                                    - SO
                                                                                                                                                                                                              O
                                                                                                                                                                                                            - 1 ·-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SO           SO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5249,179 - 5880,191
                                                                , Ublify Pickup                1         5255,000        0    •            SO   O          SO                       O                SO       O                       SO     5255,000
                                                                :Smoll FlotBod                 1         5115,000        0               • SO • 0   •      SO                       O                SO       O                       SO     $115,000
           • Fleet is utilizing guaranteed funding to               u,rgo Flot Bod             O               SO        O                 SO __o__:       SO                       O                SO       O      ,                SO           SO
                                                            ;tan•
             negotiate better pricing and reduced              Von
                                                            ·-IUblifyVon_ _ _
                                                                                               2 __
                                                                                               0   I
                                                                                                         $3n?MOI
                                                                                                           ...... _
                                                                                                               ••
                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                               :SOI
                                                                                                                         .n
                                                                                                                         •0
                                                                                                                                  ~~o _
                                                                                                                                           sol-        o      I
                                                                                                                                                                             sol o
                                                                                                                                                                             so o
                                                                                                                                                                                                      sol
                                                                                                                                                                                                      so
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                              o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S367,o831
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       so
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS69,o83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   so
             delivery times.                                C.■rs
                                                                    Cor                        0               SO I
                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                         0                      SOI    O     1               SOI    0                scco                              so          SO'
                                                            ~ oclal
                                                                1
                                                                    }irUnit                    1         S652,000        0                      SO     O                     SO     O                 $0      0                        $0    $652.000
                                                                    ftircrnftRo:uco &Fire      1       51,002.000   0                           SO   O                       $0     0                 SO      O          •            $0 $1,002,000
                                                                    Boot                       2        5402,000 - •O                           SO   O                       SO •   O                 SO     •O              -      - SO - 5402,000
                                                                                                                                                SO    O
                                                                ,Doconl:lminotion lJnil
                                                                •D02Df           •
                                                                                               1
                                                                                               2
                                                                                                       $1,002,000
                                                                                                       $1,210,000
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0                      SO ·- 0 - , -           ·-so·- o· - --so - 0 - . ·-· SOSO -S1,210,000
                                                                                                                                                                             SO     O                 SO      O
                                                                                                                                                                                                           $1,002,000

                                                                'DomrTron:portTr,o. .          0 -             SO        1          5296,100           0      ;·             $0    _o_: _             SO - - 0 - -                 ·-- SO - 5296,100
                                                                ·FuolTonkor                    1         $301,000        0                      $0     0                 •   SO     O                 SO      O                        SO $301,000
                                                                 Romp Engino                   1         $751,000        O                      SO     O                     SO     O                 SO      o                        SO $751,000
                                                                :Rchob(CERT)                   O.             • SO       1          $369,600           1      I        $388,080     O     •           SO      O                        SO $757,680
                                                                ISCBARop~r                     1         $351,000        o                      SO     O         ,           SO     O                 SO      o                        SO - S351,000
                                                                jW,torTondor                   1         5652,000        1 ...l__ $854,600             1         :     $718,830     1           $75~ ,772     O                        SO 52,810,202
                                                            jTr,llor,
                                                                ,Tnii!cr                                       :sol      o                      sol o                        soT o                    soT o                            sor         so
                                                            !Total                            Y,1~$27,02:Z,OOO! Yr2               m ,610,750!         Yr 3        $16,812,0Z!j Yr•            $17~95,IIO&I YrS           m.1..,8'6jSll9,&aS,• 2S
                                                    r-
                                                    ,-
                                                    a..




Real Estate Projects

    FY 25/26 through FY 29/30




          - -- -           - - - --- ---   ~   --
                                                   a:>
                                                   ,-
                                                   Cl..




• Recommended Projects Include Information From:
  • Service Delivery
  • Facility Condition Assessments
  • Fundi~g Sources
               ----   --- -



                                                                     a,
                                                                     ,-
                                                                     a..




• From Standard of Cover
  • Can the right resources be assembled to meet the response time
    standards for all risk types?
  • Has a change in the response standard triggered the need for
    additional capacity?
• From Service Delivery Team
  • Do recommendations require additional capacity?
                                                                                   0
                                                                                   N
                                                                                   a..




~F.'~- Facility Condition Assessments
 l,iRJ::




           • From Facility Condition Assessments
             • What is the cost of needed repairs divided by current replacement
               value?
                • 0-5°/o=Good
                • 5-1 0o/o=Fair
                • 10-60%=Poor
                • Over 60%=Substantial Renovation or Replacement

           • From Facility Condition Needs Index
             • What is the cost of needed repairs and modernization divided by
               current replacement value?
                                                                         ,.....
                                                                         CN
                                                                         c..




• Modernization:
  • Are there known environmental and/or safety risks?
  • Does the station have the required bedroom/bathroom configuration?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         a..




• Package 1 (2025-2028)
                                                                                                        -3r
                                                                                                            C,        .,
                                                                                                                                                        J
                                                                                                                                                       "2
    • Station 42 Relocation                                                                             j C
                                                                                                       o-g;:; .g
                                                                                                       ; f ~ i g C,
                                                                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                                                                   C,
                                                                                                                                                  -2                 f
                                                                                                                                                                         -.I,J~
                                                                                                                                                                      .;g .,"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             €
    • Station 112 Replacement                                                                   r ~:?
                                                                                                   C:V)c-
                                                                                                                      ~ ~
                                                                                                                                 C
                                                                                                                                                  'a
                                                                                                                                                  C,             8             C,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~
                                                                                               g ~ t e
                                                                                                                                                                 <..,         .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rv
                                                                                                                                             8                                                                                  ""t



    • Station 61 Replacement                                                                 i    g 12 E
                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                 Sf. Ill8 ._
                                                                                                                                           .?;-
                                                                                                                                          ""-.;              ; 11/ 'l:, ,z §-StZ tJ -tJ ~
                                                                                                                                                            "b            .,        C,
                                                                                                                                                                                                 't:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                 c:-      't,'t:,c:-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ba.,a.,~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~~c:-
                                                                                            ,.!:
                                                                                            -~  a.,
                                                                                                                                         <:'.'
                                                                                                                                                             ~
                                                                                                                                                            (5
                                                                                                                                                                         t 3_J: 0
                                                                                                                                                                        (.j                             ~      /::;    0      ~ ~ ~
                                                                                            0          ""        "'        ...
    • Station 23 Replacement            ~ects ($215.SM Target)                           SOC/SM? j SDP                               FCA                     FCA              I                         Fund                I Bid Packacc
                                        Istation 42 Relocation
                                                                                   - - 1-
                                                                                            X-         X_ j_X         I. _2S%               439% __         X_           X _____ X_I _ _                               X     X _        ________
                                        ~.:'._o~-1~Expansi'::'/41Relocation              J(_ J _ ~ ~ ~!!41'!.. 360%/98%_ .J(_                                            X ___ _                   ' X __              X_ _ x          ___ ..      _
• Zinfandel Phase 4 (2027-2031)         ~~ on61Expa_~lon                           ___ _ X_ X_ X _ ___J.~- - -~2%_ _ _ _ _ ____X                                                                                      J( ~              - - - -·-
                                        ~ta ti on 23Expanslo':.__                  _   ~   - - ______ 3_2% _ _359'£ _ .J(_ _ X _ _ _ X_                                                                               .J -~-j ____ _
• Package 2 (2026-2031)                 Station 62 Relocation · - · -
                                        Station 53 Expansion/Relocation
                                                                             ___            X
                                                                                                       X
                                                                                                                 X
                                                                                                                 X
                                                                                                                             34%
                                                                                                                             31%
                                                                                                                                             162% _ _ _ _ _
                                                                                                                                             264%                                       .
                                                                                                                                                                                            __ X __ X
                                                                                                                                                                                                         X             X    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~ - - - _ _ __
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X

    • Station 62 Relocation             Station 24 Expansion
                                        Zlnfandel Tral nl ngFacilityPhase3Bui ldout      _ _ i_
                                                                                                   i
                                                                                                             - ·-
                                                                                                                 X           46%
                                                                                                                                 _
                                                                                                                                             201%
                                                                                                                                             ___ ____ _
                                                                                                                                                            X • X
                                                                                                                                                                                             _
                                                                                                                                                                                                         X •
                                                                                                                                                                                                         X • X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ' X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 j     , X        __ _
                                                                                                   j                                 !                            i                      I          :Xi               ' X
    • Station 53 Expansion/Relocation   Zinfa ndel Training Faci lity Phase 4 Buildout                                                                                              X                                                  : X



    • Station 24 Expansion
• Package 3
    • TBD
0C
(D
(.I)
r-t
-·




       P23
                                              q-
                                              N
                                              a..




Capital Improvement Program Update



                Presented by:
   Erin Castleberry/ Planning & Development

                April 10, 2025
                                                                                                LO
                                                                                                N
                                                                                                a..




  To organize, facilitate, and memorialize capital needs and goals in
order to efficiently and transparently develop and support the physical
                       infrastructure of the District.
                                              Rn1mc:h1I
 Service Delivery   ~               ~
                                          Management

                                        bpcnse Mod•lin:




    Standards of
                    lll
                          c..-,._
                                    •                           ~
                                                                           finand41

                                                                    ~~~t·~g~~-~~t ·.·.I   1ft


                                           Anan-clal
     Respome                                                           Annual Budi;;•t
  Coverap & Other                         Man.eiement :
                                                                     • Srt>S'T....:a
   s.nte.PIIM
                                               Rev.nu•          ~
                                                                     •C~    •'WV.
                                               Modelirt;
                                        • R.~•~co,r: .:.,;:,i



                                            Anancial            ~
                                           Management

                                         Reserve Modelinc
                                        • Genct~I Opcfi\>rtg
                                          Rt'.:A!r-~
                                     '°
                                     N
                                     a..




  Apparatus &
   Equipment
  Replacement
    Schedule



Facil ity Condition



                        ~
  Assessment




Standards of Cover
  & Growth Plan




Fire Chief Priorities




 •     Coordinated planning effort
 •     CIP Administration
 •     Financial Administration
                                                                                                                                         r-
                                                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                                                         a..




Project Type                        _____ J~~ject Titl~_ __ ________ __ _     _ __ ---~ _ _ __________i ~_~rt - Stat~ - - - --- - _ _.
"Apparam,s &Eq~ipment                      Am·bulance ReP,lacement 20~                           s         672,~26 COMPLETE
 Apparatus & Equipment                     Ambulance Replacement 2024                                  2,768,655 CARRYOVER
1Appa~~s·&;Eqµ!p~rit                       Sq1,1ad-Veh!cle.~9oisition'~P,23 _                           ·938;_  (j1,6 .~ MPl:ETE
.l\pparatus & Equipment                    Type I Engine Rep~cement 2023·                              4'.;25'2,332 COMPlETE
1.Apparatus & Equipment.                   Copter-1 Hoist-Rebuild         •                               '142,500 taMPl.E:tE
iApparat,u_s &·Eqw,p~rit                R~pl~eni~nt MD~ f:I~ware ~                                       77~ff~ q)".Y'IPlETE
~ pparatµs & Equipment-                 Storage Appl~nce Replacement-                                   167,159 COMPLETE
 Apparatus & Equipment                  Type I Engine Replacement                                     6,028,429 CARRYOVER
 Apparatus & Equipment                  Ambulance Replacement                                         1,398,859 CARRYOVER
Apparatus & Equipment                   Ladder Truck Replacement                                      1,868,310 CARRYOVER
Apparatus & Equipment                   Type Il l Engine Replacement                                  2,303,882        CARRYOVER
rApp~~&:Equjp~t .                       A~omatic Ch~ ~mp~ioi;, E>evic;e:~p~einen~                         82,-190.' COMPLETE
[Apparatus,& Equipment                  Portable Radio-Replacem-ent                                     310~- COMPLETE
~ pararus.& Equipment                   Tm!rmal lmag-ing.Gamera Replacerhi:(n t                         m,-000         ~MPLETE
Apparatus & Equipment                   Fleet Service Truck Replacement                                 191,000        CARRYOVER
Facilities Repair/Replacement           Station 41 Frontage Improvements R&R                            125,000        CARRYOVER
IF'adttti~-Repair~epfa~mei'lt           Zinfa11del Gate Operator Replacem~                              134,230        a>MPLETE
!F~dlitjes_·ijep.air/Re~q!ment          Deferred Facili1:ies Lifecyc;:!~ ReP,lace~~nts                  36Q,09~         COMPLETE
    Facilities Repair/Replacement       Stat ion 108 Frontage Improvements                              135,000         CARRYOVER
    Land Acquisition                    Grantline 220 Land Acquisition                                2,400,000         CARRYOVER
 Misceilaneous                          Firefig~~~ Foa~ Replacement                                      13Q,500        COMPLETE
   . . ....
'M~elfaneous                            iPad MDC-Replacement                                            2Q,606         .COMPt.m
iMisp!Oariecius.                        Station Gellular Conversion                                       94,9~        .COMPLETE
    New Construction                    Vineyard Springs Station                                     10,305,370         CARRYOVER
1New Construction                       Zinfandel Training Facility - Phase 3                        16,873,425         CARRYOVER
,Pers_qnal Protective Eq~ipment
1                                       Annual Tumout'J~eplac_ement                                     '157,500 .COMPLETE
'                      ' .
fJ>el'50ll~~ P ~ Equip11111!nt          Annual ~tru'cture He!met Replace:nent                             ~ ;000 COMPlm
[Personal,-~ Equipm,ent                 -Re.a uit.Acad~my PPE                                            435,575 GOMPLETE
'PeTSOrial -Protectjv,e_~uipmeitt        vyildlai:Jd T1,1mouts: ~epla_c ement                             ~,:QQO       CQ~PLETE
    29,P-roj~•c:t_~                                                                               :$ ~3.,-~_5·3 ~927
                                                                        00
                                                                        CN
                                                                        a..




FV25/26                                                       FV29/30



          New Construction/Expansion (58%)          $203.7M

          Apparatus & Equipment (36%)               $126.3M

          Personal Protective Equipment (3%)        $9.lM

          Land Acquisition (2%)                     $7.2M

          Facilities Maintenance/Enhancement (1%)   $3.7M
                                            O")
                                            N
                                            a..




New Projects Submitted: 59
Total Funds Requested:          $119.7M



 ■ Apparatus & Equipment (43)


 ■ Personal Protective Equipment (5)


   Facilities Maintenance/Enhancement (7)


  ■ New Construction (4)
                                      0
                                      Cr')
                                      a..




 Apparatus &        Appa ratus &
  Equipment          Equipment

   Facility           Facility
Maintenance &      Maintenance &
Enhancement        Enhancement

      PPE               PPE


    New                New
 Construction       Construction


Land Acquisition   Land Acquisition


  Other/M isc        Other/Misc
                                      T"""
                                      er,
                                      a..




 Apparatus &        Apparatus &
  Equipment          Equipment

   Facility           Facility
Maintenance &      Maintenance &
Enhancement        Enhancement

      PPE                PPE


    New                New
 Construction       Construction


                   Land Acquisition
Land Acquisition


  Other/Misc         Other/Misc
                              ------ -

                                                         N
                                                         C'?
                                                         a..




Apparatus & Equipment Projects
Apparatus & Equipment Replacement {36)          $34.0M
•   Engines, trucks, and ambulances
•   Staff and command vehicles
•   Special operations apparatus and vehicles
•   Support vehicles
•   EMS, HazMat, & Safety equipment/devices
•   IT & communications equipment/devices
•   Burn prop replacement

Apparatus & Equipment Acquisition (7)       $4.3M
•   New engine, truck, and squads
•   New duty chief vehicle
•   New EMS equipment
•   New SCBA equipment
•   New Air Ops equipment
                                                                         Cl')
                                                                         Cl')
                                                                         a..




New Construction Projects
New Construction (4)       $74.2M
 • Station 42 Relocation
 • Station 23 Expansion
 • Station 61 Expansion
 • Station 112 Expansion




                             Facility Maintenance & Enhancement
                              Facility Maintenance (5)   $1.9M
                               • Multi-site roof and HVAC replacements
                               • Asphalt R&R
                               • Data cabling rep lacement
                              Facility Enhancements (2)   $1. 7M
                               • Warehouse racking
                               • Liquid CO2 extractor
                                         q-
                                         C"')
                                         a..




Personal Protective Equipment Projects
PPE Replacement (2)         $985K
•   Structural PPE replacement
•   Wildland PPE replacement


PPE Acquisition (3}          $2.6M
 • New recruit PPE
 • New structure boots (2 nd set)
 • New single layer PPE
                                                                                                                      L!)
                                                                                                                      C'?
                                                                                                                      a..
    i\\10 METflop

~~,~\~~
 EST.   El
             -~· ,
                     :occ                         CIP SCHEDULE
        F'IR~




                                                                                                Board Review
                                                                                                 & Approval




   Committee reviews &        Finance prepares          Executive Team        Proposed CIP is   Boa rd review s and
     ranks submitted         proposed financing       reviews proposed     compiled based on      approves CIP
         projects                   plan               financing pla n &     financing plan &
                                                        makes funding            funding
                                                      recommendation        recommendation

                     April       April-May                  May                  May                   June
                                                                                                <.D
                                                                                                Cr')

                                                     I
                                                     .                                          Cl..


..,#~,~~
    ~\\~o METl/oA0

 CIT.
      .
      !)   ~
         :cc:
           _.,
                                              Cone us1on
        F'IR:E:




                                                                     ,,      -------'   //,.,




                                                                    ..              ,,,/·
                                                                     ....______,,




                                              Questions?

                     Erin Castleberry I 916.859.4160 I castleberry.erin@metrofire.ca.gov
