Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
Tuesday, May 3, 2022 - 6:30 p.m.

MINUTES – Unapproved

1. Procedural

A. Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

B. Call to Order and Roll Call

Acting President Keefer called the meeting to order at 6:34 p.m. Other Board members
present: Bina Lefkovitz, Joanne Ahola, Alfred Brown, Heather Davis, Harold Fong. Also
present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Shanine
Coats, Tim Herrera, Directors; Jerry Jones, Michael Kast, Executive Directors; Darrien
Slider-Johnson, Chief Administrator, HR; Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; Nicolas
Schweizer, Associate Superintendent; Brent Malicote, Jacqueline White, Assistant
Superintendents; and Wende Watson, Executive Assistant.

C. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Davis lead the Pledge.

2. Approval of Minutes

A. No Approval of Minutes

3. Adoption of Agenda

Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented.

Motion by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee
Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Absent: Trustee Karina Talamantes

4. Official Correspondence

There was no official correspondence.

5. Visitor Presentations

A. General Public Comment




05.03.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                              1
There were no public comments.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no presentations from employee organizations.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon welcomed everyone to our in-person meeting and reported
on the following:

COLLEY SCHOOL DEDICATION
We are looking forward to the formal dedication of Nathaniel S. Colley Sr., High School
on May 9 at 3:00 p.m. It will be a very festive celebration that will include music courtesy
of the Fortune Charter School Drumline, speeches from local dignitaries, and a special
presentation by the Colley Family. We’ll have art and artifacts on display throughout the
campus. The Sacramento Educational Cable Consortium will be recording the event
and producing a television program. He also thanked Shanine Coats for leading the
Planning Committee.

COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
While students in El Centro competed in the Sacramento Regional Builders Exchange
Design Build Competition last week, Community School students are prepping to go to
the competition tomorrow and Thursday at Consumnes River College. Students will
attempt to build a helicopter inspired play structure. Our next Exhibitions are scheduled
May 17 –19 and are focused on Asian Pacific Islander research projects and student
autobiographies. We will honor students for their attendance and name our student of
the month at an awards assembly on May 26. Senior Extension is running two summer
school sessions: June 7 through June 25 and July 5 through July 25. Students can
participate in one or both sessions.

EL CENTRO
We are excited for the Career and Resource Fair on May 11. At the fair, students will
meet with vendors to learn what resources, job training and career opportunities are
available to them once they are released.

SPECIAL EDUCATION UPDATE
California Alternative Assessment testing is going on. Discussions and planning for
adequate staffing for ESY have begun. ESY will run from June 13 – July 8 with two
school Holidays for Juneteenth and the 4th of July. Staff and students alike have started
winding down for the school year. Foundations Academy, Palmiter Graduation, and
Palmiter Promotion are all planned and set to be in-person.

SCOE GRADUATIONS
Our Foundations Academy will hold its Spring graduation ceremonies in-person, at the
SCOE Conference Center on May 11-12 beginning at 10:30 a.m. each day. The



05.03.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                                 2
graduation for our Leo A. Palmiter seniors will be held on Friday, June 3 at 11:30 a.m.
And we will be hosting a graduation ceremony for our Community School and Senior
Extension students on June 2 at noon at the Scottish Rite Center.

SEAL OF BILITERACY EVENT
On Tuesday, April 26, we hosted a very nice virtual event to honor those high school
students in Sacramento County who have earned their Seal of Biliteracy. The seal is
awarded to high school seniors who have demonstrated English competency, plus
competency in another language, by meeting specific criteria. This year, 1,600 students
earned their seals. More than 70 students obtained the seal in two or more languages!
Thanks to Graciela García-Torres who does an amazing job of promoting and
coordinating the Seal of Biliteracy program.

FENTANYL AWARENESS TOWNHALL
He wanted to make everyone aware that on Wednesday, May 25 from 5:00 p.m. to 6:30
p.m. there will be a Fentanyl Awareness Virtual Town Hall livestreamed on YouTube.
The event is co-sponsored by the District Attorney’s Office and Sacramento County
Public Health. We appreciate both of those agencies hosting this event to discuss this
public health crisis, and we have helped them circulate their information. We have
provided you all with a flyer for your information.

KEVIN JORDAN: SCOE TEACHER OF THE YEAR 2023
Congratulations to Kevin Jordan, our Nursery and Landscaping Instructor at Leo A.
Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School for being named the SCOE Teacher of the Year for 2023.
Kevin has been teaching at Palmiter for 13 years and has been doing an amazing job
teaching students not only about horticulture, but also about landscape architecture,
environmental design...and especially hard work and teamwork. Kevin is now eligible to
compete in the Sacramento County Teachers of the Year program and we wish him the
best of luck.

DAY OF THE TEACHER
Wednesday, May 11, is California Day of the Teacher and to thank all our amazing
SCOE teachers we are sending trays of cookies to each of our school sites, as well as
specially made thank you cards to each teacher. You also will be seeing a lot of our
teacher’s photos on our social media channels as we celebrate their hard work.

CLASSIFIED SCHOOL EMPLOYEE WEEK
Classified School Employee Week is May 15-21 and to thank our outstanding classified
employees we will also be sending them specially made cards. You also will be seeing
a lot of our classified employee’s photos on our social media channels as we celebrate
their hard work. We also plan on holding a lemonade and cookie reception out in the
lobby on a day to be determined that week.

B. SCOE 2022 Classified Employee of the Year - Tim Herrera




05.03.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                               3
Executive Director Michael Kast presented the SCOE 2022 Classified Employee of the
Year to Heather Scott, an infant educator in our Infant Development Program. Ms. Scott
accepted her award and thanked the Board and SCOE.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee
Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Absent: Trustee Karina Talamantes

By approval of the consent agenda the following consent agenda items were approved:

B. Accept Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. No Diplomas – Jacqueline White/Michael Kast

D. Approval of the School Plans for Student Achievement - Juvenile Court and
Community Schools - Jacqueline White

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee
Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Absent: Trustee Karina Talamantes

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

A. No Grant Applications/Service Contracts

10. New Business – Other

A. First Reading of New Board Policy 3311.1 - Uniform Public Construction Cost
Accounting Procedures - Teresa Stinson




05.03.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                           4
Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer presented this item.

B. First Reading of New Board Bylaw 9150 - Student County Board Members - Teresa
Stinson

General Counsel Teresa Stinson presented this item.

C. First Reading of New Board Bylaw 9400 - Board Self-Evaluation - Teresa Stinson

Ms. Stinson presented this item.

D. Board Report - Supporting English Learners in Sacramento County - Dr. Channa
Cook-Harvey

Assistant Superintendent Brent Malicote introduced Graciela Garcia-Torres, who
presented the Board report, followed by questions and comments by Board members

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola commented that this past Sunday, her daughter, 12 year old Grace,
joined her for the Fair Oaks Fun Run.

Trustee Brown commented that he was surprised that Supreme Court Justice Ketanji
Brown’s mother was in his graduating class at Tuskegee.

Trustee Lefkovitz complimented Acting President Keefer on his running of the meeting.
She also reported that May is Mental Health Awareness Month. On Saturday, she is
participating in the NAMI walk. She questioned if there would be any value to a report
regarding the fiscal oversight process so that the Board could better understand. She
also requested that our staff provide a summary with links for the Board on The Equity 8
– California’s Key Legislative Principles Amid COVID-19 Pandemic.

Trustee Davis is looking forward to the Colley event next week and FACE. She also
reported that she is going to pick up her son from Texas on May 11-13 and will miss the
graduations being held at that time.

Trustee Fong requests that the renaming of the scholarship committee be brought
before the Board for a vote. He also commented that if we are going to look at the
Superintendent’s role regarding fiscal oversight of the districts that he would like to hear
from the side of the "other people", such as the teachers. This is Asian Pacific Islander
month. He would like the Board to pass a resolution to support Asian American studies
in the high schools. He also stated that he is looking forward to the Colley event on May
9.




05.03.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                                5
Trustee Brown added that the scholarship committee was started by Trustee Lefkovitz
and the fund has grown significantly in the last year. The committee is able to support
the kids from last year and this year to the tune of $1,000 per kid.

B. Board President

There was no President’s Report.

C. Committees

There was no Committee Reports.

12. Items for Distribution

There were no items for distribution.

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. May 17, 2022
B. June 14, 2022

14. Adjournment

Trustee Brown moved to Adjourn Meeting in the memory of Jack Parham, SCOE’s chief
negotiator, and colleague of Superintendent Gordon. Trustee Ahola seconded the
motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee
Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Absent: Trustee Karina Talamantes

The meeting adjourned at 8:02 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




05.03.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                               6
