Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, March 7, 2023

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the regular meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Other Board members
present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Joanne Ahola, Alfred Brown, Harold Fong, and
Heather Davis. Trustee Bina Lefkovitz was absent.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendent Nick Schweizer; Assistant Superintendents Brent Malicote and
Jacqueline White; Executive Directors Michael Kast, Xanthi Soriano, and Jerry Jones;
Director Shanine Coats, and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Fong led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

There were no public comments.

B. Employee Organizations

Tara Degg, President of CSEA Chapter 480, stated that they were nominated for the
Appreciating Classified Employees (ACE) Program but not accepted. She commented
that she is working with SCOE to develop an internal program to run during Classified
Employee Appreciation Week. This program invites managers, the Board of Education
members, and others to experience an hour in the workday life of a Classified
Employee.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. No Minutes




03.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          1
4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to approve the adoption of the agenda as presented by Trustee Brown,
   second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Absent: Trustee Bina Lefkovitz

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

STUDENT EVENTS (COUNTYWIDE)
February saw many student competitions and at each event, our young scholars
showed great empathy toward each other, respect, and enthusiasm. It has been
wonderful seeing everyone come together in-person and hearing parents, friends, and
families cheer their children on.

The Poetry Out Loud program took place on February 23 at Rosemont High School. Ms.
Soriano was the emcee and helped keep the audience entertained with anecdotes that
reflected the importance of the arts. Alex Yue from John F. Kennedy High School was
the first-place winner and Julia Smith from Elk Grove High School placed second. Our
judges included Dr. Steve Winlock, Assistant Superintendent Jackie White, Dr. Chris
Roe, and Allison Cagley from the Friends of the Arts Foundation. Special thanks to the
School of Education staff who helped coordinate this unique arts program.

The 2023 Gordon D. Schaber Moot Court competition took place on February 28 at the
3rd District Court of Appeal. Mira Loma High School won first place while Bella Vista
took second. Both schools are in the San Juan district and have dominated the
competition in recent years.

The 2023 Sacramento County History Day event took place on March 4 at Inderkum
High School. Exhibits and Posters were featured by student artists. Awards were issued
by categories including California History and Women’s History. Thank you Trustee
Corona Sabeniano and all who attended these wonderful events.

Looking ahead into March and April, the Club Live Countywide Lip Sync Competition
will be held Friday, March 10 at The Sophia Theater. This is a fast-paced high-energy
event featuring middle school performers. Local celebrities will be judging the event.

The Friends of Sacramento Arts is hosting “Heroes of Arts” on March 16 at The Sophia



03.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           2
Theater. The event will honor several arts teachers representing six or more of the 13
districts in Sacramento County as outstanding arts educators and several other local
community leaders. Please contact Wende Watson if you would like to attend any of
these exciting events.

EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT: Learn at Lunch
On February 14 and 28, a two-part Learn at Lunch series in honor of Black History
Month was led by Shanine Coats and Dr. Channa Cook. Presented to a packed room,
more than 45 staff attended on each of the two days. Called, “A Journey Through Black
History”, the presentation featured a balance of the historical experiences and
accomplishments of African Americans that most individuals may not have been taught
in school. Significant people, places, and events in history were discussed and
attendees had opportunities to discuss topics at their tables. Thanks Shanine, Channa,
and everyone else who helped make this valuable program possible.

SOCIAL AND EMOTIONAL
March 10 is Social Emotional Learning Day and in March, schools and organizations
are encouraged to celebrate their SEL work and continue advocating, practicing, and
participating in SEL work throughout their community. SCOE will be offering a series of
workshops. The ”Transformative Social-Emotional Learning in Action” spring series
workshop will continue March 9. The “Integrate Social-Emotional Learning Into a Multi-
Tiered System of Support” series will continue on March 28.

DEI AND OUTREACH
A virtual learning session titled “The Bridge Between Disability and Intersectionality” will
be held on March 16. A follow up in-person luncheon will be held on April 3 at 12:00
p.m. where staff will be encouraged to share and discuss what they learned at the
previous session.

PUBLIC RECOGNITION OF STAFF: CSEY Reception/TOY Celebration
Thanks to everyone who attended the Classified Employee of the Year Nominee
Reception that took place earlier today. Thanks also to Trustees Ahola, Brown, Davis,
and Corona Sabeniano for attending the Teacher of the Year Celebration at the
Sacramento Kings game last night.

SCOE RECRUITMENT
We are looking forward to hosting one of Northern California’s first hybrid recruitment
events at SCOE on Saturday, March 18. SCOE’s Personnel Department, School of
Education, and Special Education teams will be side by side with several local and
Northern California districts recruiting for talent. Approximately 52 local educational
agencies will be on site and another several dozen will be online. Communications
helped further Tulare COE and Sonoma COE as well as our SCOE teams promote the
March event locally and worked with our Personnel Department to develop marketing
and branding elements they will use as we prepare for recruitment season.

SPRING CONVENINGS



03.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             3
On March 1, SCOE hosted the California Dyslexia Initiative Spring Professional
Learning Network. SCOE will host the Counselor Spring Institute at Sacramento State
University on March 23 and 24. On March 29, SCOE will welcome the Spring convening
of the California Early Literacy Professional Learning Network through the Early Literacy
Support Block Grant.

B. Recognition of the April 2023 Employees of the Month - Xanthi Soriano

Barbara McKnight, Accounting Technician with Accounts Payable, was recognized and
honored as the Classified Employee of the Month for April.

Jacob Mickelson-Steele, Infant Development Teacher, was recognized and honored as
the Certificated Employee of the Month for April.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Absent: Trustee Bina Lefkovitz

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White announced that eight students will be
awarded diplomas including one candidate from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. Senior
Extension; and seven candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. No Contracts

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts and
Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget - David
W. Gordon

A. No Grants

10. New Business - Other




03.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          4
A. Adoption of Resolution No. 23-01 - In Support of Funding for Juvenile Court and
Community Schools - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer presented this item.

Motion to adopt Resolution No. 23-01 - In Support of Funding for Juvenile Court and
Community Schools by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Absent: Trustee Bina Lefkovitz

B. Board Report - Mental Health Initiative - Brent Malicote

Assistant Superintendent Brent Malicote introduced Director Chris Williams to present
the Board report on the Mental Health Initiative.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola - no report

Trustee Brown stated that the Kiwanis Club of Rancho Murieta, of which he is a
member, is hosting Kids Fishing Day April 1 for youth 12 and under.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano reported that she is working with the Natomas Schools
Foundation on their annual scholarship application. Six scholarships will be awarded to
students that attend school in the Natomas Unified School District. She also commented
that she really enjoyed the student programs she recently attended. She stated that she
was a history minor in college and that she learned a lot from reading the student-
created posters at the 2023 Sacramento County History Day. She wished everyone a
happy Women’s History Month.

Trustee Davis reported that she does about 250-300 fingerprinting/live scans per month
at her store. Many of which are for volunteers with the Community Services District,
which is a big deal in her town. Many of her customers are parents that have
volunteered to coach their child’s team and they feel ill-equipped to do so. Ms. Davis
uses this time with her customers as an opportunity to encourage them. She said that,
as Board members, the most important thing to do is encourage students, parents, and
teachers.

Trustee Fong made comments in response to the Mental Health presentation regarding
the behavioral diagnosis of students. He stated that the diagnosis is placed on their
record which makes him a little uncomfortable and wondered if having mental health
clinicians in schools could lead to an over-diagnosis of students.



03.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          5
B. Board President

President Keefer read a poem entitled Dark Path Bright Future from a student at El
Centro.

C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution

A. March/April Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. March 21, 2023 and April 7, 2023

14. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Absent: Trustee Bina Lefkovitz

The meeting was adjourned at 8:10 p.m.




03.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                       6
