Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
Tuesday, February 1, 2022 at 6:30 p.m.

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Call to Order and Roll Call

Meeting called to order at 6:32 PM

Members present via teleconference: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina
Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee
Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Nancy
Herota, Deputy Superintendent; Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; Nicolas Schweizer,
Associate Superintendent; Jerry Jones, Executive Director; other staff; and Wende
Watson, Executive Assistant.

Other staff present via teleconference were Darrien Slider-Johnson, Chief Administrator;
Brent Malicote and Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendents; Michael Kast, Channa
Cook-Harvey, Kristen Wright, and Rachel Perry, Executive Directors; and Tim Herrera
and Shanine Coats, Directors.

2. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Ahola lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of December 14, 2021

Motion to approve the Minutes by Trustee Harold Fong, second by Trustee Heather
Davis.

Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Adoption of Agenda

Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Harold Fong.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried



2/1/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                              1
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no Official Correspondence.

6. Visitor Presentations

A. General Public
Public comments were provided by the following individuals: Gabrielle, Crystal Dunn,
Brenda Smith, Pam Viray, Erin Page, Rachel Kattan, Lisa Pelletier, Annie Kaye,
Andrea, Thaddeus Kozinski, Kelly Kulikowski, Lyndi Brasier, and Matthew Newton.

B. Employee Organizations - There were no presentations.

7. Superintendent’s Report

Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

LOCAL DISTRICT UPDATES
All districts that participated in today’s call reported that COVID cases are significantly
decreased from last week for both staff and students. (Twin Rivers USD and Robla USD
were not on today’s call.)

COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
Our community school team has remained focused on serving students despite daily
staffing shortages. Team members have supported our sites by subbing in classrooms
and backfilling for the principals when they have been subbing for staff.

He is sorry to inform you that Bill Meehan, President of Northern California Construction
and Trades (NCCT), passed away on the evening of January 24. Bill was a good friend
and partner to SCOE and led the development of the program that has provided so
many youth and adults opportunities for high wage jobs in the trades. His son Jake,
daughter Tami, and son-in-law Mike will continue to provide this amazing program to
our Community Schools, El Centro, VOYA youth, and Adult Re-Entry programs.

EL CENTRO
Over the past two weeks, two units in El Centro have been quarantined. Probation and
SCOE staff continue to partner to provide services for students during this difficult time.
As a result, construction and culinary programs have been unable to operate. Due to
high numbers of COVID cases, Probation has pulled field officers back into the Youth
Detention facility to support the quarantined staff.

SPECIAL EDUCATION UPDATE
The restart of in-person services for Infant Development Program has been postponed



2/1/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                                     2
until April due to continued COVID concerns for both SCOE staff and families that they
serve. Day-to-day staffing is a regular struggle due to COVID cases and mandatory
quarantines. Staff are doing an exemplary job of being flexible in their work assignments
to keep classrooms open.

DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION UPDATE
We have made a National Equity Project 5-part series open to all SCOE employees and
LEAs in Sacramento and surrounding counties. Veronica Ruiz joined our DEI team on
January 3 as our new Coordinator for Diversity, Equity and Social Justice. Our team has
drafted an Equity Action Plan to communicate our inclusion vision within SCOE, build
capacity for support, and embed metrics and expectations within all SCOE departments.
We continue to work with our extended leadership team and Cabinet to deepen equity-
focused facilitation leadership skills. Many thanks to retired Sacramento Police Chief
Daniel Hahn who, on January 28, so graciously gave a rich and riveting presentation for
all SCOE staff titled “A Way Forward: System to System - Improving Outcomes for
Sacramento's Youth by Understanding Race-based Policies.”

CHILD-SIZE MASKS
Cal OES has procured more than 9-million child-size surgical masks and roughly 7.6-
million kid-sized KN95 masks. The state will be combining the delivery of these masks
to county offices who will distribute them for students and staff in each county, including
private schools. Allocations are based on student enrollment per county. Yesterday, we
received more test kits, which we also will distribute to our local schools. Our
outstanding Support Services team has been doing an amazing job coordinating the
distribution of masks and tests.

ACADEMIC DECATHLON
The 2022 Sacramento County Academic Decathlon will be held at Folsom High School
on Saturday, February 5, 2022. The 2022 topic: Water - A Most Essential Resource.
The decision to host an in-person scholastic competition was made following
consultation with the Sacramento County Public Health Department and will have strict
health and safety protocols that parallel those for in-person instruction and sporting
events in public schools in Sacramento County. 16 Sacramento County teams and
three Placer County teams will compete. The Placer County teams will compete
amongst themselves and be scored separately.

SLY PARK VISITS
As COVID case rates continue to be of particular concern, we have been in close
contact with County Health officials regarding the operation of Sly Park. We made the
collaborative decision to postpone in-person services at Sly Park through February. The
first potential campers would arrive on February 28. As we have seen throughout the
pandemic, our staff have pivoted to provide meaningful support to the Pollock Pines
Community and the schools that we support. The kitchen staff restarted the “Supper
Program” for the Pollock Pines community on January 28 and the teachers will be
providing hybrid supports to participating schools with virtual and limited in-person
support at the school sites. We are thankful for the hard work, flexibility, and innovation



2/1/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                                 3
that our Sly Park team continues to demonstrate! We are considering scheduling a site
visit to Sly Park in February while students are not present for Board members to see
the recent renovations. If you are interested in participating in a visit, please contact
Wende Watson.

SCOE OFFICES CLOSED
SCOE offices will be closed for the following holidays: Lincoln’s Birthday on February 14
and Washington’s Birthday on February 21.

RESILIENCY SCHOLARSHIP/GARY HART
As you may know, former Secretary of Education Gary K. Hart passed away last week.
Prior to his passing, Gary made it known to him that he wished for donations to be
made to our Resiliency Scholarship fund in his name. To make the donation process
more user-friendly, we made changes to the scholarship page on the SCOE website.
We can now accept electronic donations, as well as those made by check. We also
have made it clear to those wishing to contribute that donations to the SCOE Resiliency
Scholarship fund are tax deductible under the Internal Revenue Code. As he closes out
his report, he would like to ask that at the end of the meeting that we adjourn in memory
of Gary Hart and Bill Meehan.

8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon
B. Accept Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Joanne Ahola.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students – Jacqueline
   White/Michael Kast

Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendent, announced that the following students will
be awarded a diploma: two candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School; Angel
Gabriel Gutierrez-Rodriguez and Najalay Monique Richards from Elinor Lincoln Hickey
Senior Extension; and Sierra Ku Byzaayen Chavez-Taylor, Ravanna Conston, and
Roberto Antonio Rodriguez from North Area Senior Extension.

9. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve.



2/1/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                                   4
Motion by Trustee Harold Fong, second by Trustee Karina Talamantes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Action: A. First 5 California's Dual Language Learner Pilot Expansion - Local
       Administrative Agency (LAA) - Brent Malicote

Motion to Approve.

Motion by Trustee Heather Davis, second by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

11. New Business – Other

Action: A. Authorization to Enter into Contracts for E-Rate Services - Jerry Jones

Motion to Approve.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Harold Fong.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Action: B. Authorization for Out-of-State Travel for Trustee Alfred Brown

Motion to approve.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Joanne Ahola.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Heather Davis, Trustee Joanne Ahola
No: Trustee Harold Fong
Abstain: Trustee Alfred Brown

Action: C. Adoption of Resolution No. 22-03 - In Support of the 1300 Campaign

Teresa Stinson, General Counsel, presented this item.




2/1/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                              5
Trustee Fong stated that he supports the goals of the 1300 Campaign but requested
revisions to some portions of the proposed Resolution. A discussion by the Board
followed.

Motion by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz to adopt Resolution No. 22-03, second by Trustee
Paul Keefer.
Motion by Trustee Fong to table or revise the proposed Resolution was not seconded.
Motion to approve Resolution 22-03 as proposed carried.
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
No: Trustee Harold Fong

Information: D. First Reading of Revisions to Board Bylaw 9281 - Committees

Chair Paul Keefer of the Policy Committee presented this item for the First Reading.

Information: E. First Reading of Revisions to Board Policy 1240 - Volunteers

Chair Keefer of the Policy Committee presented this item for the First Reading.

Information: F. First Reading of Revisions to Board Bylaw 9000 - Purpose and Role of
      the Board

Chair Keefer of the Policy Committee presented this item for the First Reading.

Information: G. Evaluating Programs and Measuring Student Outcomes

Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendent and Melissa Neuburger, Program Manager
presented this item.

Information: H. Youth Voice/Civic Engagement

Brent Malicote, Assistant Superintendent, introduced this item and Frank Pisi, Director,
lead the presentation.

Information: I. Board Report - Governor's Budget

Nicolas Schweizer presented this item.

12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

Reports: A. Board Members

Trustee Davis is excited to hear that there is a possibility of bus service coming back. If
there is money available for dual enrollment, reformation is needed to benefit our
students and create effective programming.




2/1/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                                     6
Trustee Ahola asked Superintendent Gordon to follow up with Superintendent Kern
about the student at Bella Vista which was mentioned during the public comments
portion of the meeting. Regarding masking, parents should make what choice is best for
their students.

Trustee Lefkovitz is excited about the budget report presented tonight. She noted that it
is Black History Month and the Lunar New Year. She plans to donate to the Scholarship
Fund in honor of Gary Hart and asked if her fellow Board members are interested.
CSBA Lobby Day is in March, and she will be participating via Zoom.

Trustee Fong also commented on Black History Month and Lunar New Year. He also
requested an update on AVID and commented that it is a fantastic program that assists
students to graduate.

Trustee Brown participated in Legislative Advocacy Day the last few years. He also
talked about the Academic Decathlon and commented that there are still some
opportunities to help with the event. He is a Kiwanis Club board member, and they have
a $2,000 scholarship available for one student from the continuation program in Elk
Grove, Calvine, William Dillard, Las Flores, or Rio Cazadero next year. Trustee Brown
will be going to Washington, DC for Cap-to-Cap and plans to provide a report when he
returns.

Trustee Keefer walked the Board through a scenario and cited an article in the Wall
Street Journal that there was 950,000 COVID deaths in the United States. Of those,
700,000 people were over the age of 65. On this website, covid.cdc.gov, he cited
statistics that show youth are not dying from COVID. He urged the Board to consider a
resolution to remove the mask mandate because of the data.

Reports: B. Board President

President Talamantes acknowledged that January was a long difficult month. People
are still hurting from the pandemic. There is a lot of work ahead of us. She is thankful for
being here and to provide people with security any way she can.

Reports: C. Committees - There were no committee reports.

13. Items for Distribution

Information: A. February/March Events
Information: B. February/March Site Visits

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

Information: A. February 15, 2022
Information: B. March 1, 2022




2/1/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                                  7
15. Adjournment

Action: A. Adjourn the Meeting

Trustee Lefkovitz moved to adjourn the meeting in memory of Bill Meehan and Gary
Hart.

Motion to approve adjournment.

Motion by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Paul Keefer
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Meeting adjourned at 9:56 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,



David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




2/1/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                              8
