       l           I
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l61;~
    DAN HAVERTY
                         10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700


   Interim Fire Chief


                                  BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                        Thursday, August 24, 2023 - 6:00 PM
                                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                              10545 Armstrong Avenue
D'Elrnan Clark                              Board Room - Second Floor
Board President
Division 6
                                                   Mather, California
                                                           &
Grant Goold                                       Remotely Via Zoom
Board Vice President
Division 2                                  Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
                                                 Passcode: metro2101
Ted Wood
Board Secretary                      Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Division 4                                     l1f Passcode: 838771796 #
Cinthia Saylors         https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ 1Znd25RSmlhdXZV
Board Member                                        QVh4d 1VWZz09
Division 1

Robert Webber
Board Member
                        The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 3
                            and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.
Jennifer Sheetz
Board Member
Division 5              The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Brian Rice              the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
Board Member            appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
Division 7              Application, please click on the link above.
Gay Jones
Board Member            Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Division 8              reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
John Costa              reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
Board Member            advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Division 9
                        accommodations:

                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                           Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                    THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 2023


►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District will be cablecast on Metro Cable 14,
the local government affairs channel on Comcast, Consolidated Communications and AT&T U-
Verse cable systems. This meeting is also webcast at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov. Today's
meeting replays at 2:00 p.m. on Sunday, August 27, 2023 and 6:00 p.m. on Monday, August 28,
2023 on Channel 14. This meeting can also be viewed at youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and encourages
public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public members wishing
to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding officer and identify
themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of time and good order, limit
the number of public member presentations. Speakers' comments will be limited to three (3)
minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members of
the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be present or
have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.


CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                   Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                          5
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of July 13, 2023.

2.     Revision of Board Policy - Policy 01.010.03 Purchasing and Contracting                                          14
       Policy
       Recommendation: Approve the Purchasing and Contracting Policy
       revisions.
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                 THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 2023


PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.   Financial Planning and Budget Policy - Policy 02.021.01                                                      37
     (CFO Dave O'Toole)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.

2.   Service Delivery Update                                                                                     **
     (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
     Recommendation: Receiye presentation, no action required.

REPORTS:
1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                 (President Clark)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Chief House)
           OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
           ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - ( Chief Development Officer Jeff Frye)
           SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

3.   SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice
     President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

     A.     Executive Committee - (President Clark)
            Next Meeting: TBD

     B.     Communications Center JPA - (DC Wagaman)
            Next Meeting: September 12, 2023 at 9:00 AM

     C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
            Next Meeting: August 24, 2023 at 5:00 PM
            Report Out: August 24, 2023

     D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
            Next Meeting: September 14, 2023

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

ADJOURNMENT
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                      THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 2023


NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

    •   Regular Board Meeting - September 14, 2023 at 6:00 PM
    •   Regular Board Meeting - September 28, 2023 at 6:00 PM


Posted on August 21, 2023 by 4:30 p.m.



Marni Rittburg,       ~
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
•'Im Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
    l          I
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~;J~
 DAN HAVERTY
Interim Fire Chief

                     ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                                   BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                         SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                   Thursday, July 13, 2023
                                Held at the following locations:
                            10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                       Mather, California
                                                &
                                      Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:01 pm by President Clark. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold, Jones, Rice, Saylors, Sheetz, Webber and Wood. Board members
  absent: None. Staff present: Interim Chief Haverty, and Board Clerk Marni Rittburg.

   PUBLIC COMMENTS

   No public comments were received.

   CONSENT ITEMS

  Action: Moved by Director Sheetz, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by
  members present to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

   1.      Action Summary Minutes
          _Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board
           Meeting of June 8, 2023.
           Action: Approved the Action Summary Minutes

   2.       Approval of the Purchase of two (2) 2024 Ford E-Transit Vans from the National
            Auto Fleet Group
            Recommendation: Approve the purchase of two (2) 2024 Ford E-Transit Vans from
            the National Auto Fleet Group.
            Action: Approved the purchase of two (2) 2024 Ford E-Tran~it Vans.

   PRESENTATION ITEMS

   1.       Presentation on the Personal Protective Equipment Program
            (Assistant Chief Lozano & Roberl "Bobbie" Sestito)
            Recommendation: Receive presentation.
            Action: Presentation received.



                                                                                                              P5
PUBLIC HEARINGS

1.    Introduction of Ordinance 2023-02 updating the Fee Sch~dule For
      Operational Permits, Plan- Review, New Construction Inspections, General Fire
      and Life Safety Inspections, and Other Miscellaneous Services.
      (Assistant Chief Law)
      Recommendation: Conduct a Public Hearing and introduce Ordinance 2023-02,
      Amending its Fee Schedule for Operational Permits, Plan Review, New Construction
      Inspections, General Fire and Life Safety Inspections, and Other Miscellaneous
      Services.
      Action: Director Clark opened the Public Hearing at 6:52 p.m., one public comment
      was heard. Director Clark closed the Pubic Hearing at 6:56 p.m. Moved by Director
      Jones, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by members present to waive the
      first reading of the Ordinance and move it to the second reading.


ACTION ITEMS

1.    Disclosure of Material Expenditure - Excess General Liability Insurance -
      Homesite Insurance Company and HDI Global Services
      (Brad Svennungsen, US/ Insurance Services)
      Recommendation: Authorize payment of $263,321 to Homesite Insurance Company
      and $175,544 to HDI Global Services.
      Action: Moved by Director Goold, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by roll
      call vote of members present to Authorize payment of $263,321 to Homesite
      Insurance Company and $175,544 to HDI Global Services.

REPORTS

1.    PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Clark)

      No Report

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Interim Chief Haverly)


     1. New Hire

          a. Please join me in welcoming Sergey Voznyuk, hired as a Logistics Technician
             effective June 27.

     2. Retirement
          a. Congratulations to Captain Colin Swarthout on his retirement on June 30, 2023,
             after 22 years of service.

7.13.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 2 of 9




                                                                                              P6
    3. Reclassifications
         a. Congratulations to the following personnel for being reclassified to their
            respective positions effective July 1, 2023:

                i.   . Lara Kelley - Business Application Analyst (formerly Staffing Specialist)

               ii.    Sarah Ortiz - Payroll Manager (formerly Payroll Supervisor)

              iii.    RMarie Jones - Grant Specialist (formerly Accounting Specialist)

    4. Promotions

          a. Congratulations to the following members for being promoted to their respective
             ranks effective June 30, 2023:

                i.    Battalion Chief:
                           Battalion Chief                Assignment
                           Aldrich, Joe                   85-C Shift
                           Pittman, Rvan                  87- B Shift


                1.    Captain:
                              A Shift

                               Captain                  Assignment
                               Covington, Nicholas       E105
                               Currie, Jacob             E61
                               Gusevnov, Mark            E50

                               B Shift

                               Captain                  Assignment
                               Fritz, Kyle               E62
                               Jamison, Trevor           E23
                               McDermott, Rvan           E55
                               White, Tim                E65
                               Zalutskiy, Igor           E103

                               C Shift

                               Captain                   Assignment
                               Field, Andy               E103
                               Miller, Jeffrey           E24
                               Wynne, Aaron              E53


7.13.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                         Page 3 of 9




                                                                                                     P7
              11.       Engineer:
                            A Shift

                           IThomas,
                            Engineer
                                    Pierce
                                                       IAssignment
                                                       E54

                             B Shift

                           I Engineer
                             Klein, Trevor
                                                       IAssignment
                                                        E114

                             C Shift

                             Engineer                  Assignment
                             Franco, Omar              E117
                             Gallisdorfer, Justin      E101

    5. Reassignments

          a. Congratulations to the following members who have been selected to join Drill
             Master Dillon Fader for the 23-1 MMP Academy, effective July 2, 2023:

                    •   Firefighter Frank Valente
                    •   Firefighter Kyle DiBiase
                    •   Firefighter Josh Eusebio
                    •   Firefighter Cameron Mitchell
                    •   Paramedic Diana Borshch

             The Academy start date was July 10, 2023 and will run 6 weeks total.

          b. Congratulations to Paramedic Cody Parker for being selected to fill the Mobile
             Integrated Health Paramedic position, effective July 5, 2023.

             Paramedic Diana Borshch has been reassigned from the Mobile Integrated
             Health Paramedic position effective July 2, 2023. The District would like to
             thank Paramedic Borshch for her dedication and commitment while working in
             the MIH Program.

          c. Congratulations to Captain Eric Sacht for being selected to fill the EMS Shift
             Captain, B Shift position, effective July 24, 2023.

          d. Congratulations to Captain Carl Jewell for being selected to fill the EMS Shift
             Captain, C Shift position effective October 4, 2023.

             The District would like to thank Captain Matthew Smotherman and Captain
             Shawn Burke for their dedication and commitment while working in EMS.


7.13.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 4 of 9




                                                                                               PS
    6. Recruitment

          a. HR is accepting applications for:
                i. Fire Mechanic (internal and external) with a final filing date of July 31 by
                   4 PM.

                 ii. Paramedic (external) with a final filing date of July 31 by 4 PM.

     7. Miscellaneous

          a. June 29: several of our Executive Staff (and BC House) joined in the
             Groundbreaking Ceremonies in the City of Folsom for their new Park and Fire
             Station 34.

          b. Fourth of July: While the daytime hours were suspiciously slow for fire related
             call volume, the evening hours proved to be busy with a number of working
             structure fires, as well as many small grass fires . It is no overstatement to
             herald our "Land, Sea, and Air" capabilities that provided an excellent
             response. Our field crews did an excellent job with aggressive attacks, prudent
             use of resources, and admirable resilience moving from one incident to
             another. The Command Staff worked alongside our Field Commanders aiding
             them in the many fires that were fought during the evening and early morning
             hours. Our CRRD personnel were out in full force over both July 3rd and 4th
             monitoring the three major Public Fireworks shows at Northridge CC, Del Paso
             CC and Hagan Park. There were no issues of consequence at any of the
             shows thanks to good planning and our Inspector's oversight. CRRD
             confiscated at least two very large caches (truckloads) of illegal fireworks with
             citations given.

          c. Several of our Executive Staff (and BC House) welcomed recruits to the Metro
             Medic Program (MMP) 23-1 Academy on July 10.

          d. AB 40 & AB 1168 Hearings on July 12

                     a. BC House, Local 522 representatives, and I gave testimonial support at
                        the Senate Committee on Health for :

                i.      AB 40 Ambulance Patient Off-load Times, which is sponsored by CPF.

               ii.      Much later in the evening I gave testimonial support at the Senate
                        Committee on Governance & Finance for AB 1168 City of Oxnard JPA
                        for ambulance 201 rights, which is sponsored by Cal Cities.

          e. Reframing Organizations: July and August sessions will be combined, sessions
             will take place in August and led by Chief House.


7.13.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 5 of 9




                                                                                                   pg
          f.   Transition briefings for BC House are still underway, as he becomes more
               informed of the District's Administrative functions, liabilities and current
               positions on various topics.

OPERATIONS REPORT (AC Charlie Jenkins for Deputy Chief Adam Mitchem

1. STATISTICS
A. 4,383 total incidents since our last report on June 29; an average of 313 calls per day. 307
fire incidents were responded to which is an average of 22 calls per day.
2. JULY 4TH

A. July 1 -5. 58 incidents involving fireworks which were dispatched as EMS, Fire, or Special
Ops related. 12 incidents involved illegal fireworks, 11 Legal safe and sane, and 35 incidents
were undetermined of the type of fireworks involved
B. During the same time frame there were 6 incidents with fireworks related injuries:

   •   6-year-old female with minor burns to the leg. Illegal firework was thrown by teenager
       into group of people at a park.
   •   44-year-old male with severe explosive injury to left hand while lighting illegal firework,
       also had burns & scrapes to abdomen and hands.
   •   35-year-old male amputated finger while lighting a safe & sane fountain that exploded.
   •   49-year-old male burns to hands, abdomen, lower extremities and shrapnel wounds to
       same areas from a mortar that exploded when he was lighting it.
   •   7-year-old male struck with flying illegal fireworks debris, 1st degree burn to left lower
       leg.
   •   4-year-old female with first degree burn to right shoulder. Undetermined type firework
       went off and struck her shoulder.

3. RECENT SIGNIFICANT CALLS & TOPICS

A. Copter 1 responded to Placer County I Nyack area for a successful Hoist Rescue after a
citizen fell over 30 feet in rugged terrain and needed extrication.
8. Retired Annuitant AC Mike Johnson has been deployed as part of the FEMA / USAR IMT
deploying to the Vermont Flooding Incident. There were reports of over 6 inches of rain falling
in an hour. Expecting more rain with swollen rivers/ creeks, and saturated ground.
C. Grass Fires are on the uptick with 3 working vegetation fires burning at the same time this
past Tuesday in the afternoon. A fire in Rancho Cordova burned 87 acres and had spotting of
fires 600 feet from the main fire. A firing operation was put into place to contain the fire. A fire
off Pershing Ave in Orangevale was 7 acres in tough terrain / progressive hose lays,
thousands of feet, in steep terrain. Another near Bannister Park and the Governor's Mansion
about 3 acres with progressive hose lays, thousands of feet, being put in to in inaccessible /
unable to drive into areas. Day staff of multiple ranks and off duty Command Officers
reported to work to cover the 911 system during the drawdown.


7.13.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                         Page 6 of 9




                                                                                                       P10
D. Yesterday we had 2 good working fires in the District, one was in Battalion 9 / kitchen fire
in a Duplex. A father and son discovered the fire and called 911. The Son went to the front
door and saw a victim inside crawling on the floor. The Son kicked in the front door, and with
the assistance of his father, placed the victim in a wheel chair and extricated him from the
building. Victim was transported with burn injuries but is expected to survive. PIO working
with BC9 on getting all the information to acknowledge the Father and Son for their heroic
efforts. B5 / Antelope Area had a 2nd alarm fire with a fire starting between two / 2 story
homes. The fire became well established in both homes including the attics. Multiple hose
lines, vertical vent, and search performed in both structures. BC5 Aldrich ran the fire with 3
divisions utilizing a CMD channel and 2 tac channels. Crews worked tails off in high outside
and interior temps. Many members became overheated and we focused on getting them
cooled down and rotating fresh crews in for overhaul.
E. I would like to thank the Board of Directors for supporting Tablet Command for our BC's
and Chief Officers. Tablet Command is an Accountability and Tracking Tool that can be used
to track decision points made by Command and lets incoming Chief Officers see were units
are and what are their assignments.
F. Shout out to PIO Parker Wilbourn and his Staff on their great work pushing out information
to the public, social media, News Networks etc. showcasing Metro Fire and informing our
Citizens of events happening in our District.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT (Deputy Chief Ty Bailey)

No Report

SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT (Deputy Chief Tyler Wagaman)

DC Wagaman thanked the Board for approving two new E-Transit Vans tonight which will be
the first fully electric vehicles for the District. We have a new Logistics Technician starting on
July 24th . Chief Wagaman commended Chief Law and her staff on the hard work and
countless hours updating the Fee Schedule. Chief Law was then brought up and she
introduced Krista Aney who successfully completed POST training on June 21 st and Krista
will be filling for the Arson Investigator position on C-shift. Chief Law thar.1ked Deputy Fire
Marshall Amy Nygren and Krista Aney for all their hard work over the July 4th weekend and
they did a tremendous job confiscating over 2,000 pounds of illegal fireworks.

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Firefighter Mike Gi/done for Vice
   President Matt Cole)

FF Mike Gildone welcomed the new recruits and congratulated the 17 personnel who recently
promoted to their respective ranks effective June 30, 2023.

4.     COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
       All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
       10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mathe,; Califomia unless otherwise specified.

       A.      Executive Committee - (President Clark)

7.13.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                        Page 7 of 9




                                                                                                                    P11
             Next Meeting: TBD
             No Report.

      8.     Communications Center JPA - (AC Greene)
             Next Meeting: July 24, 2023 at 9:00 AM (Special Meeting)
                           July 25, 2023 at 9:00 AM

             The Communications Center JAP Board met on June 27 th and took action on
             the following items:

             1 . Approved a two-year contract renewal with Concern EAP.

             2. Approved the final FY 2023/2024 budget representing an approximately 11 %
             increase from the previous year.

             3. Approved the centralized Tablet Command contract management under the
             Center and pass-through of contract costs.

             The Communications Center JPA Board will meet on July 24, 2023 for a
             Special Board Meeting and July 25, 2023 for its regularly scheduled meeting.

       C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
              Next Meeting: July 27, 2023 at 5:30 PM

             Will meet on 7/27/2023, No Report.

       D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
              Reported Out: June 8, 2023
              Next Meeting: August 10, 2023

              Will meet on 8/10/2023, No Report.

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Costa thanked staff for all the hard work over the 4 th of July holiday/weekend.

Director Jones thanked Robert "Bobbie" Sestito for the great presentation on this excellent
program.

Director Webber thanked Robert "Bobbie" Sestito for the very informative presentation on this
great program.

Director Sheetz welcomed the new employees and congratulated staff and their promotions
and the well-deserved retirement.

Director Rice thanked staff for their amazing work over the July 4 th weekend . Director Rice
expressed excitement about completing the Fire Chief recruitment process and encouraged
staff to rally around the new Fire Chief.
7.13.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 8 of 9




                                                                                                   P12
Director Wood gave kudos to Brenda Briggs and April West and the entire team for a very
successful Fire Camp. He also thanked Public Information Officer Parker Wilbourn for the
excellent work getting the social media posts out and keeping the public informed. Director
Wood expressed gratitude to President Clark and Director Rice for attending Luau on the
Links on Saturday which is put on by the Firefighters Burn Institute. On Saturday, September
16, 2023 there is a Chili Cook-Off at the Sacramento Regional Fire Museum from 6 to 9 p.m.
benefiting and hosted by the Firefighters Burn Institute.

Director Goold thanked all the applicants who went through the Fire Chief selection process
as it takes a tremendous amount of courage to go through the process. Every candidate was
outstanding and it was not an easy decision. Thank you to the City Managers of Citrus
Heights and Rancho Cordova who took the time to sit on the community panel.

The Board recessed to Closed Session at 8:09 p.m_. on the following matter:

CLOSED SESSION:

1.    PERSONNEL MATTERS - PUBLIC EMPLOYEE EMPLOYMENT
      Pursuant to California Government Code§ Sections 54957 and 54957.6
      Fire Chief Contract and Discussion
      Negotiator: John Lavra, General Counsel.

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

The board reconvened to open session at 9:27 p.m. and stated there was no reportable
action taken in closed session.

To view the video of the meeting , please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:
https://metrofire.ca.gov/2023-07-13-board-meeting
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA


ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 9:27 p.m.




D'Elman Clark, President                          Ted Wood, Secretary



Marni Rittburg , CMC, Board Clerk

7.13.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 9 of 9




                                                                                               P13
                           Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                            10545 Armstrong Ave. , Suite 200 · Mather, CA 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3702


Adam House
 Fire Chief




 DATE:                    August 24, 2023

 TO:                      Board of Directors

 SUBJECT:                 Revision of Board Policy
                          Policy 01.010.03 - Purchasing and Contracting


                                                        TOPIC

 Review the proposed changes to the current Policy 01.010.03 - Purchasing and
 Contracting.

                                                    DISCUSSION

 Attached is the amended Purchasing and Contracting Policy, which was last approved by
 the Board on March 25, 2021. This policy was reviewed by the Finance Division and
 language has been amended to clarify processes pertaining to procurements using
 federal funding and update other sections of the policy. The original policy and the newly
 revised policy are attached for your review.

 The revised policy was presented to the Policy Committee on August 24, 2023 and was
 approved for referral to the Board of Directors for consideration.

                                               RECOMMENDATION

 Staff recommends that the Board of Directors approve the Purchasing and Contracting
 Policy revisions.



 Submitted By:                                              Approved By:



       'Toole (Aug 18, 2023 10:50 PDT)

 Dave O'Toole                                                Adam House
 Chief Financial Officer                                     Fire Chief




                                         Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                                          P14
             Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                    BOARD POLICY
POLICY TITLE:          Purchasing and Contracting                OVERSIGHT: Administration
POLICY NUMBER: 01.010.03          EFFECTIVE DATE:     11/04/92   REVIEW DATE: 03/25/2021




Background
The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's (District) Purchasing and Contracting Policy
was established to stimulate and promote competition for the procurement of District
goods and services; ensure that all qualified and responsible suppliers have an
opportunity to do business with the District; implement public purchasing best-practices
that comply with all federal, state and, local laws; and adopt business practices that will
facilitate effective business relationships and retain public confidence.

Purpose
The purpose of this policy is to provide direction for procuring goods and services to be
utilized by the District in meeting its mission of providing protection, education, and service
to our community.

Scope
This policy applies to all District personnel.

Definitions
 1.       Bid: A statement of cost for goods and services, when specifics are known.

 2.       Board: The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District.

 3.       Capital Asset: Assets of significant value, broadly classified as land, buildings and
          improvements, infrastructure, equipment, and intangible assets, with a
          capitalization amount in excess of $5,000, and anticipated practical use period
          exceeding one fiscal year.

 4.       Emergency: A sudden, unexpected occurrence that poses a clear and imminent
      ,   danger, requiring immediate action to prevent or mitigate the loss or impairment of
          life, health, property, or essential public services.

 5.       Fire Chief's Designee: An employee of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          who has been designated by the Fire Chief to requisition and contract on behalf of
          the District.

 6.       Capital Asset: Assets of significant value, broadly classified as land, buildings and
          improvements, infrastructure, equipment, and intangible assets, with a
          capitalization amount in excess of $5,000, and anticipated practical use period
          exceeding one fiscal year.




                                                                                    1IPag e

                                                                                                  P15
                                                                Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                 01 .010.03
                                                                                08/10/2023

 7.   Formal Bid/Proposal: A competitive bid or proposal submitted in response to a
      formal solicitation process and pursuant to the requirements, terms, and conditions
      outlined in the formal solicitation.

 8.   Formal Solicitation Process: The process of issuing a Request for
      Bids/Proposals and receiving sealed written bids/proposals for purchases
      exceeding the minimum amount prescribed by the County of Sacramento's
      Purchasing Ordinance (any amount in excess of $100,000). This does not include
      Public Projects, which must follow a different formal solicitation process.

 9.   Informal Solicitation Process: The process of receiving a minimum of three
      informal bids/proposals, if available, for purchases in excess of $45,000 but less
      than the minimum amount prescribed in the County of Sacramento's Purchasing
      Ordinance (any amount in excess of $100,000) that would require the formal
      solicitation process. This does not include Public Projects, which must follow a
      different informal solicitation process.

10.   Informal Bid/Proposal: A competitive bid, price quotation, or proposal for supplies
      or services that is conveyed via letter, fax, email, or other written manner that does
      not require a formal sealed bid or proposal, public opening, or other formalities.

11.   Lowest Responsive and Responsible Bidder: The entity that submits a'bid that
      was responsive to the requirements of the solicitation and who has been deemed
      to have demonstrated the attribute of trustworthiness, as well as quality, fitness,
      capacity, and experience to satisfactorily perform the requested work and at the
      most competitive price.

12.   Multiple Award Schedule: A schedule of non-exclusive contracts to provide
      similar or comparable goods or services of indefinite quantity that are awarded to
      more than one supplier or vendor at varying prices for a specified term after
      completion of a formal solicitation process.

13.   Personal Property: Any goods, material, supplies, vehicles, machinery,
      furnishings, equipment, and any other tangible article required for the conduct of
      the business of the District.

14.   Proposal: A statement that includes the cost, timing, source, conditions, and
      related parameters associated with procurement of equipment, materials,
      supplies, and services, when specifics are not known or a solution is being sought.

15.   Public Project: Includes either (1) construction, reconstruction, erection,
      alteration, renovation, improvement, demolition, and repair work involving any
      publicly owned, leased, or operated facility, or (2) painting or repainting of any
      publicly owned, leased, or operated facility. Public project" does not include
      maintenance work, which includes (1) routine, recurring, and usual work for the
      preservation or protection of any publicly owned or publicly operated facility for its
      intended purposes, (2) minor repainting, and (3) landscape maintenance, including
      mowing, watering, trimming, pruning, planting,. replacement of plants, and
      servicing of irrigation and sprinkler systems.


                                                                                 2 jPag e

                                                                                               P16
                                                                  Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                   01.010.03
                                                                                  08/10/2023

16.   Purchase: Any contractual arrangement or transaction involving payment for the
      acquisition of title to real or personal property; the use by rental, lease or otherwise
      of real or personal property, the provision of services by independent contractor or
      otherwise; or any combination of the foregoing.

17.   Real Property: Land, that which is affixed to land, that which is incidental or
      appurtenant to land, that which is immovable by law.

18.   Request for Bid (RFB): A written solicitation for sealed bids issued for the
      procurement of personal property or services in excess of $100,000, with clearly
      defined specifications.

19.   Request for Information (RFI): A non-binding method used to solicit information
      from potential suppliers of goods and services.

20.   Request for Proposal (RFP): A written solicitation for sealed proposals issued for
      the procurement of personal property or services in excess of $100,000, where
      requirements are qualitative rather than quantitative, or where the supplier/vendor
      is proposing a solution to a problem posed by the District.

21.   Request for Qualifications RFQ: A pre-procurement process used to establish a
      pre-qualified list of suppliers/vendors who are eligible to respond to future formal
      solicitations for similar or comparable goods or services for a specified term due
      to their demonstrated qualifications and experience.

22.   Special Services: Such services shall be limited to the fields of accounting,
      administration, ambulance, architecture, custodial, economics, engineering,
      finance, insurance, labor relations, law, maintenance, mechanics, medicine,
      planning, science, technology, and other services which are incidental to the
      operation of the District.

 Policy
1.    The Fire Chief shall designate purchasing authority to the Purchasing Agent and
      other designees, giving each the ability to make a purchase or enter into an
      agreement once all applicable purchasing procedures have been followed as
      described in this policy.

2.    All District personnel having purchasing authority shall conduct themselves in such
      a manner as to foster public and Board confidence in the integrity of the District's
      purchasing procedures.

Procedures
1.    General Purchasing and Procurement Procedures

      a. The Purchasing Agent ("Purchasing") may review all procurement requests
         (requisitions) for supplies and services prior to the order being placed with the
         vendor to determine if the best value to the District is being met. Purchasing


                                                                                   31Pag e

                                                                                                 P17
                                                                                         Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                                            01.010.03
                                                                                                           08/10/2023

               and the divisional budget officer are jointly responsible for identifying
               acceptable vendors for a specific product or service. The divisional budget
               officer is responsible for technical aspects of the evaluation and Purchasing is
               responsible for the financial and service aspects. Once acceptable vendors
               have been established, Purchasing, in conjunction with the divisional budget
               officer, shall be responsible for ensuring vendors selected can best respond to
               the requirements of each particular order.

          b. A Purchase Order is required for all procurements that exceed $1,000.

          c.    Purchasing will review all requisitions to assure compliance with this policy.

          d. Purchasing, in conjunction with the divisional budget officer, will be responsible
             for all communication with suppliers regarding performance issues.

          e. No contract for services or supplies may be finalized without Purchasing
             providing review and approval.

          f.    Purchasing will assume responsibility for issuing all RFBs, RFPs, RFls, and
                RFQs for goods and services through a coordinated effort with the involved
                division.

2.         Purchases of Personal Property

           a. Except as otherwise provided by law, all purchases shall be made in the name
              of the District.

           b. Amounts included in the annual budget approved by the Board for the purchase
              of specifically identified items of personal property shall constitute spending
              authority to the Fire Chief or Fire Chief's Designee for such items of personal
              property up to the approved amounts. All such purchases shall be in
              accordance with the methods and procedures described herein.

           c. Where the cost of personal property is any amount in excess of $45,000 but
              does not exceed $100,000, the Fire CHief or Fire Chief's Designee shall be
              required to follow the informal solicitation process set forth in section 5 herein.

           d. Where the cost of personal property is any amount in excess of $100,000, the
              Fire Chief or Fire Chief's Designee shall be required to follow the formal
              solicitation process set forth in section 6 or section 7 of this policy.

3.         Procurement of Special Services

           a. The District may contract for special services (as defined in the Definitions
              section of this policy) with persons or expert firms specially trained,
              experienced, and competent to perform the special service.

           b. The Fire Chief or Fire Chief's Designee is hereby authorized to enter into
              agreements, by which independent contractors provide such special services
              to the District. Any special service contract or agreement that is less than

- ---· -· ------- - --- ·-- · ··- - - - - - ·- ·-----·-·- ~-- --·   . -   ----- --- ----- -----~-- -----·- ------- - ---
                                                                                                           41Page

                                                                                                                           P18
                                                                       Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                          01 .010.03
                                                                                         08/10/2023

                $100,000 can be entered into without the informal solicitation process,
                providing the Fire Chief or the Fire Chief's Designee has researched all options
                and has determined that the decision is based on the best value for the District.

        c.      Except as otherwise provided herein, any Special Service contract or
                agreement as defined herein, which is expected to exceed $100,000 shall be
                solicited through the formal solicitation process.

4.       Purchases up to $45,000

         a. These. purchases are known as "Best Judgment Purchases." This means that
            individual purchases for personal property or services up to $45,000 can be
            completed using the purchaser's best judgment. Informal bidding is
            encouraged at this level by getting quotes over the phone or email (preferred),
            or by using the Internet to document competitor pricing and make sure the
            District is receiving the best value. A purchase order is required for any
            transaction over $1,000.

         b. For those purchases of personal property and services that do not require the
            formal or informal solicitation process, staff must research and evaluate to
            make sure the District is getting the best value, ensuring that the best price is
            obtained for the particular goods or service taking int6 consideration the total
            cost of ownership (TCO).This can be achieved by obtaining, if available, a
            minimum of three comparison bid evaluations using verbal and/or written
            quotations, or any other method of obtaining comparison costing or estimates.

5.       Informal Solicitation Process (Purchases totaling $45,000.01 to $100,000.00)

         a. When the expenditure required for the purchase of personal property or
            services is in excess of $45,000.00 and up to $100,000.00, procurement of the
            personal property or services must be obtained through the following informal
            solicitation process:

               i.   Obtain and complete the Informal Bid/Proposal Form found on Metro Apps
                    > Documents.
              ii.   Obtain at least three (3) written quotes. If three (3) quotes were not
                    acquired, a detailed explanation detailing why the required number of
                    quotes were not obtained must be provided on the Informal Bid/Proposal
                    Form. This exception may be approved at the discretion of the Purchasing
                    Agent if it is determined that the making of the purchase without three (3)
                    quotes is reasonably necessary for the conduct of District business.
             iii.   Enter a requisition for purchase into the District's financial system. A
                    completed Informal Bid/Proposal Form and all quotes (if applicable) shall
                    be attached to the requisition for Purchasing to review. Upon approval from
                    Purchasing, a purch~se order will be issued.




--·- - - - - -- - - - - ---   -·-----•----··---------· - - --·-- - -·-· - - - - - --   -·-·   -----·- --
                                                                                         5 jP age

                                                                                                           P19
                                                                      Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                        01.010.03
                                                                                       08/10/2023

6.   Formal Solicitation Process (Purchases Exceeding $100,000)

     a. Except as otherwise provided herein, when the expenditure required for the
        purchase of personal property or services exceeds $100,000, the District shall
        notify Purchasing to initiate the formal solicitation process. Contract shall be
        awarded to the most responsive and responsible bidder offering the best value
        to the District, and is subject to approval by the Board.

     b.          Purchasing will conduct all correspondence with suppliers involving prices or
                 quotations for formal solicitations. Only Purchasing is authorized to release
                 formal solicitation information related to vendor prices, quotations, questions,
                 or related information.

7.   Exception to Bidding

     a. Purchases may be allowed without competitive bidding under the following
        circumstances:

            i.      When the aggregate or cumulative price to be paid under the purchase
                    contract is one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or less, unless
                    otherwise required by state law.
           ii.       In the event of an Emergency.
          iii.      When the following types of personal property or services are being
                    acquired, obtained, rented or leased:

                    A.      Advertising;
                     B.     Books, recordings, motion picture films, subscriptions;
                     C.     Election supplies;
                     D.     Insurance;
                     E.     Public utility services;
                     F.     Travel services;
                     G.     Property or services provided by or through other governmental
                            agencies; or obtainable from suppliers which have in force a
                            current contract with another governmental agency for the same
                            item or service
                     H.     Property or services the price of which is fixed by law.

          iv.        When a patented or proprietary item is being purchased (including
                     single/sole source).

           v.        When the branch Deputy Chief and Purchasing Agent determine that
                     making of a purchase without competitive proposals is reasonably
                     necessary for the conduct of District business.




                                                                                       6 1P age

                                                                                                    P20
                                                                           Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                            01.010.03
                                                                                           08/10/2023

     b. Exception to Formal Solicitation Process:
          i.                If purchase does not qualify for one of the exceptions to competitive
                            bidding detailed in Section 7, Part a., i-iii, a request for an exception
                            from the formal solicitation process shall be made. Requests for an
                            exception from the formal solicitation process shall follow this process:
                      A         Fill out the Request for Exception to Formal Solicitation Process
                                Form and Disclosure Statement found on Metro Apps > Documents
                      B.        Submit completed form and any applicable supporting
                                documentation to branch Deputy Chief and Purchasing for review
                                and preliminary approval.
                      C.        Submit to Board of Directors '.or review and approval.

8.   Request for Qualification Process

     a.          When the District is seeking to establish a pre-qualified list of
                 suppliers/vendors for the purpose of streamlining future formal solicitation
                 processes for similar or comparable goods or services the pre-qualified list
                 must be established through the following Request for Qualifications (RFQ)
                 process.

                i.        Purchasing shall work with the divisional budget officer to prepare ,an
                          RFQ document that describes the type of goods or services and identifies
                          the minimum qualifications required for a supplier/vendor to be eligible to
                          respond to future formal solicitations for that type of goods or services.

                ii.        Only Purchasing is authorized to issue RFQ documents. Purchasing will
                           conduct all correspondence with suppliers related to the RFQ process.

               iii.       A pre-qualified list of suppliers/vendors may be established at the
                          conclusion of the RFQ process to include suppliers/vendors with
                          demonstrated qualifications and experience. These suppliers/vendors
                          will become eligible to respond to future formal solicitations for similar or
                          comparable goods or services.

9.   Contracts

     a. When the Board determines that it is in the public interest, the District may
        contract with any other public or private agency for fire protection services,
        rescue services, emergency medical services, hazardous material emergency
        response services, ambulance services, and any other emergency services for
        the protection of lives and property. .

     b. All contracts for consulting services shall require review by Legal Counsel.

     c. All contracts for goods and services up to the informal bid threshold of $45,000
        shall require the review and approval of Purchasing.



                                                                                            71Page

                                                                                                          P21
                                                                                 Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                                 01.010.03
                                                                                                08/10/2023

10.     Conflict of Interest

         a. The Fire Chief, Fire Chief's Designee, or Board of Directors shall ensure that
            any purchase of any Personal Property or Special Services shall be in
            compliance with California Government Code Section 87100 et. seq.,
            pertaining to Conflict of Interest, which states:

                  A public official at any level of state or local government shall not make,
                  participate in making, or in any way attempt to use the public official's
                  official position to influence a governmental decision in which the official
                  knows or has reason to know the official has a financial interest.

11.      Bid Splitting Prohibited

         a. It is unlawful, for the purpose of evading any requirements herein, to split or
            separate into smaller units of purchase any purchase covered by this policy.

12.      Former District Employees

         a. For the three (3) year period 'from the date the former District employee left
            District employment, no former District employee may enter into or participate
            in a contract in which they engaged in any of the negotiations, transactions,
            planning arrangements or any part of the decision-making process relevant to
            the contract while employed in any capacity by the District.

13.      Public Projects

         a. The District has elected to become subject to the procedures outlined in the
            Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Act (Act). Public projects of sixty
            thousand dollars ($60,000) or less may be performed by the employees of the
            District by force account, by negotiated contract, or by purchase order. Public
            projects of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or less may be let to
            contract by informal procedures as set forth in the Act. Public projects of more
            than two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) shall, except as otherwise
            provided in the Act, be let to contract by formal bidding procedure. Such formal
            and informal bidding procedures are outlined in the California Government
            Code, commencing with Section 22030.
         b. In cases of Emergency when repair or replacements are necessary, the District
            shall follow the Emergency Contracting Procedures detailed in the California
            Public Contract Code, Section 22050.

14.      District Procurement Card

         a. The District issues procurement cards to certain individuals for District-specific
            purchases. All purchases made with the District procurement card must meet
            ALL procurement requirements stated in this document AND closely adhere to
            the District's procurement card policy, which includes these provisions:



------------- -------- ··   - -- ------------------··- .. -- --- · - -- ---- ----·-- - ·----- -- -- ·- --- - ·------
                                                                                                      8IPag e

                                                                                                                       P22
                                                              Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                               01.010.03
                                                                              08/10/2023

        i.    District procurement cards may only be used as a purchase option for small
              purchases up to $1000, when items are not available from Logistics.
        ii.   District procurement cards may only be used for official business and may
              not be used for personal purchases under any circumstances.
       iii.   District procurement cards are only issued to cardholders who have
              certified that they understand and will comply with all related District
              policies.
       iv.    District procurement cards may be suspended or revoked due to misuse.
       v.     District procurement cards shall not be used for grant funded purchases.
              Any exceptions to this must be approved by the grant management team
              prior to making a purchase.

15.   Capital Asset Policy

      a. The District has a Capital Asset Policy to provide a mechanism for controlling
         property acquisition, availability, transfer, disposal and proper documentation.
         Specifics can be found in the District's Capital Asset Policy.

16.   Purchases Made with Federal Grant Funds

      a. Grant Purchases shall follow all procurement standards as outlined in 2 Code
         of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 200, specifically sections 200.317 through
         200.326. If this policy deviates from the Federal procurement standards as set
         forth in 2 CFR 200 in any way, the District shall follow the more restrictive
         standard for all procurements involving Federal funds.

References
1.    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Capital Asset Policy

2.    Grants Management Procedures 05-2021

3.    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Procurement Card Policy

4.    California Public Contract Code

5.    Sacramento County Purchasing Code




                                                                              9IP a g e

                                                                                            P23
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                          BOARD POLICY
 POLICY TITLE:             Purchasing and Contracting                   OVERSIGHT: Administration
 POLICY NUMBER: 01.010.03              EFFECTIVE DATE:       11/04/92   REVI EW DATE: 03/25/2021




 Background
 The intent of the policy is to seekSacramento Metropolitan Fire District's {District)
 Purchasing and Contracting· Policy was established to stimulate and promote competitionr
 procure personal property for the procurement of District goods and services at a standard
 consistent 1Nith the ' required levels of quality; assure: ensure that all qualified and
 responsible suppliers and bidders have an equal opportunity to do business with the
 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (District); utilize acceptedDistrict: implement public
 purchasing best-practices for the conduct of our service; that comply with all federal, state
 andJ. lqcal laws; conform to ethical3nd adopt business practices in all transactions; conduct
 all District business in a manner that will inspire goodfacilitate effective business
 relationships and insure the retain public confidence of the public.

     Purpose
     The purpose of this policy is to provide a single resource of informationdirection for tAe
     procurement of all equipment, material, supplies,procuring goods and services to be
     utilized by the District in meeting its mission of providing protection, educationJ. and service
     to our community.

     Scope
     This policy is applicable::ipplies to all District personnel.

     Definitions
      1.     Bid: The processA statement of obtaining quotescost for the purchase of
             equipment, materials, supplies.goods and servicesJ. when specifics are known .

2.           Proposal: The process of obtaining quotes for the purchase of equipment,
             materials, supplies, and services 1Nhen specifics are not kno¥m or a solution is
             being sought.

 ~_2.__ Board: The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District.

4.           Construotion: The work of constructing , altering, renovating, or any other repair
             •.-..ork improving buildings or facilities, including labor and materials thereby
             required. Minor repainting or other routine maintenance required for the protection
             and preservation of any District property is not considered oonstruction.

      3.     Capital Asset: Assets of significant value. broadly classified as land. buildings and
             improvements. infrastructure. equipment. and intangible assets. with a


                                                                                          1IP age

                                                                                                        P24
                                                                     Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                      01.010.03
                                                                                     03/25/2021
                                                                                     08/10/2023

         capitalization amount in excess of $5,000, and anticipated practical use period ,
         exceeding one fiscal year.

 M_.__Emergency: An unforeseen circumstance(s) in •.vhich anA sudden, unexpected
          occurrence that poses a clear and imminent danger, requiring immediate
          purchase, service, or construction is necessary in order3ction to avoid a
         ·substantial hazard to prevent or mitigate the loss or impairment of life, health,
          property, or an interruption to the operation of the Districtessential public services.

 &:-_5.__ Fire Chief's Designee: An employee of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         who has been authorizeddesignated by the Fire Chief to requisition and contract
          on behalf of the District.

   6.    Capital Asset: Assets of significant value, broadly classified as land. buildings and
         improvements, infrastructure. equipment, and inta.ngible assets. with a
         capitalization amount in excess of $5,000. and anticipated practical use period
         exceeding one fiscal year.

   _?.__ Formal BiddingBid/Proposal : A com petitive bid or proposal submitted in
         response to a formal solicitation process and pursuant to the requfrements, terms.
         and conditions outlined fn the formal solicitation.

         Formal Solicitation Process: The process . of issuing a Request for
         Bids/Proposals and receivin,g sealed written bids/proposals for purchases
         exceeding thtf minimum amount prescribed by the County of Sacramento's
         Purchasing Ordinance (any amount in excess of $100,000). This does not include
         Public Projects. which must follow a different formal solicitation process.

 &_9.__lnformal Biddin9Solicitation Proce~s: The process of receiving a minimum of
       . tt·free i.•.iritteninformal bids/proposals, if available, for purchases in excess of
         $45,000 but less than the minimum amount prescribed in the County of
         Sacramento's Purchasing Ordinance .(any amount in excess of $100,000) that
        would require the formal biddingsolicitation process. This does not include Public
         Projects, which must follow a different informal solicitation process.

  10.    Informal Bid/Proposal: A competitive bid. price quotation. or proposal for supplies
         or services that is conveyed via letter, fax. email. or other written manner that does
                      a
         not require formal sealed bid or proposal. public opening. or other formalities.

9,-11.   Lowest Responsive and Responsible Bidder: The bidder who'sentity that
         submits a bid that was responsive and responsible bid offers the best value to the
         Districtrequirements of the solicitation and who has been deemed to have
         demonstrated the attribute of trustworthiness. as well as quality, fitness. capacity.
         and experience to satisfactorily perform the requested work and at the most
         competitive price.

  12.    Multiple Award Schedule: A schedule of non-exclusive contracts to provide
         similar or comparable goods or services of indefinite quantity that are awarded to



                                                                                      21Page

                                                                                                    P25
                                                                            Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                             01 .010.03
                                                                                            03/25/2021
                                                                                            08/10/2023

                 more than one supplier or vendor at varying prices for a specified term after
                 completion of a formal solicitation process.

4-G-,-13.        Personal Property: lncludesAny goods, material, supplies, vehicles, machinery,
                 furnishings, equipment.,_ and any other tangible article required for the conduct of
                 the business of the District.

      14.        Proposal: A statement that includes the cost, timing, source, conditions, and
                 related parameters associated with procurement of equipment. materials,
                 supplies, and services, when specifics are not known or a solution is being sought.

      15.        Public Project: Includes either (1) construction, reconstruction, erection,
                 alteration, renovation , improvement. demolition, and repair work involving any
                 publicly owned, leased, or operated facility, or (2) painting or repainting of any
                 publicly owned, leased, or operatecj facility. Public project" does not include
                 maintenance work, which includes (1) routine, recurring, and usual work for the
                 preservation or protection of any pfublicly owned or publicly operated facility for its
                 intended purposes, (2) minor repainting, and (3) landscape maintenance, including
                 mowing, watering, trimming, pruning, ·planting, replacement of. plants, and
                 servicing of irrigation and sprinkler systems.

44-:-16.         Purchase or PurGhases: Any contractual arrangement or transaction involving
                 payment for the acquisition of title to real or personal property; the use by rental,
                 lease or otherwise of real or personal property, the provision of services by
                 independent contractor or otherwise; or c1ny combination of the foregoing.

       17.       Real Property: Land, that which is affixed to land, that which is incidental or
                 appurtenant to land, that which is immovable by law.

42-,-18.        . Request for Fo·rmal Bid: Used when (RFB): A written solicitation for sealed bids
                  issued for the procurement of personal property or services to be purchased is in
                  excess of $100,000 and c~n be, with clearly defined wi-tR-specifications.

       19.       Request for Informal Bid: Used whenRequest for Information (Rfl): A non-
                 binding method used to solicit information from potential suppliers of goods and
                 services .

.....
 1"""3.-    -   - Request for Proposal.(RFP): A written solicitation for sealed proposals issued for
                   the procurement of personal property or services to be purchased is in excess of
                  -$ 45,000 but less than $100,000 and can be clearly defined with specifications.

44.-20.          Request for Formal Proposal: Used when, where requirements are qualitative
                 rather than quantitative, or where the specific personal property or service is not
                 easily identified or detailed specifications are not available and the anticipated cost
                 supplier/vendor is expected to be in excess of $100,000. Suppliers are asked to
                 propose their own proposing a solution to achievea problem posed by the desired
                 resultsDistrict.




                                                                                             3jPage

                                                                                                           P26
                                                                                           Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                                            01.010 .03
                                                                                                           03/25/2021
                                                                                                           08/10/2023

15.            Request for Informal Proposal: Used when the specific personal property or
               service is not easily identified or detailed specifications are not available and the
               expected cost is expected to be in excess of $45,000 but less than $100,000.
               Suppliers are asked to propose their own solution to achieve the desired results.

4-e,-21.       Request for Qualifications: Used when the District is seeking to obtain
               information to qualify firms and/or their proposals in order to decide 1Nhich company
               would be the most beneficial to do business with, orA pre-procurement process
               used to establish a qualified vendor listpre-qualified list of suppliers/vendors who
               are eligible to respond to future formal solicitations for similar or comparable goods
               or services for a specified term due to their .demonstrated qualifications and
               experience.

4+.-22.        Special Services: Any service of a specialized nature required in the conduct of
               operations of the District, 1Nhich may include services in the areasSuch services
               shall be limited to the fields of accounting, administration, ambulance, architecture,
               custodial, economics, engineering, finance, insurance, labor relations, law,
               maintenance, mechanics, medicine, planning, science, technology, and other
               services which are incidental to the operation of tlie Districtdistrict.

18.            Surety: A financial gua'rantee to insure the performance of a contract. Surety
               requirements are mandated for construction and can be optional for personal
               property and services.

19.            fixed Asset: Assets of significant value that extends beyond the current year and
               that are broadly classified as land, buildings and improvements, infrastructure,
               equipment and intangible assets, and exceed a capitalization amount of $5,000.

       Policy
      1.       The Fire Chief shall designate purchasing authority to certain individualsthe
               Purchasing Agent and other designees, giving each the ability to make a purchase
               or enter into an agreement once al l applicable purchasing procedures have been
               followed as descriped in this policy.

      2.       All District personnel having purchasing authority shall conduct themselves in such
               a manner as to foster public and Board confidence in the integrity of the District's
               purchasing procedures.

      Procedures
      1.        General Purchasing and Procurement Procedures

                a. The Purchasing Manager (Agent (" Purchasing➔J may review all procurement
                   requests (requisitions) for supplies and services prior to the order being placed
                   with the vendor to determine if the best value to the District is being met. -+AA>
                   will include determining if the best vendor has been selected. Purch.asing and
                   tho Budget Officerdivisional budget officer are jointly responsible for identifying

      ·--· --·-- - ---- -   -   -· . ------- ---- - --- · -·-··- ·-·-- • ---------   ---- ---- ---·---------- ---------
                                                                                                               4jPage

                                                                                                                          P27
                                                                Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                 01.010.03
                                                                                03/25/2021
                                                                                08/10/2023

            acceptable vendors for a specific product or service. - The Budget
            Officerdivisional budget officer is responsible for technical aspects of the
            evaluation and Purchasing is responsible for the financial and service aspects.
            Once acceptable vendors have been established, Purchasingi in conjunction
            with the Budget Officerdivisional budget officer, shall be responsible for
            selection of a vendor 1.vhoensuring vendors selected can best respond to the
            requirements of each particular order.

       b. -A Purchase Order is required for all procurements that exceed $1,000.

       c.   Purchasing will review all requisitions to assure compliance with bidding,
            contracting, and fixed asset policiesthis policy.

       d. Purchasing •.viii conduct all correspondence 1Nith vendors involving prices or
          quotations for formal bids. Only Purchasing is authorized to release
          information relative to vendor prices, quotations, questions, or any other
          formal bidding information.

       e,._d._Purchasing, in conjunction with the divfsional budget officer, will be
           responsible for all communication with suppliers regarding performance
           issues.

       f:.~Purchasing will review all contracts No contract for services aR€1or supplies
           prior to the contract beingmay be finalized.,. without Purchasing providing
           review and approval.

       g..,.t_Purcha:sing will assume responsiQility for issuing all RequestsRFBs, RFPs,
             RFls, and RFQs for Formal Bids, Formal Proposals and Formal Qualifications
             for suppliesgoods and services through a coordinated effort with the involved
             divisi0n.

2. ,   Purchases of Personal Property or Supplies

       a. Except as otherwise provided by law, all purchases shall be made in the name
          of the District.

       b. Amounts included in the annual budget approved by the Board for the purchase
          of specifically identified items of personal property shall constitute spending
          authority to the Fire Chief or Fire Chief's Designee for such items of personal
          property up to the approved amounts. - All such purchases shall meetbe in
          accordance with the requirements, if any, of the formal or informal bidding
          procedure prior to purchasemethods and the contracting limits as specified in
          sections 3, 4, 5 and 6 of this policy. procedures described herein.

       c. Where the cost of personal property is any amount in excess of $45,000 but IB
          less thandoes not exceed $100,000, the Fire Chief or Fire Chief's Designee
          shall be required to follow the informal biddingsolicitation process set forth in
          section 5 herein.


                                                                                 5IPage

                                                                                              P28
                                                               Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                 01.010.03
                                                                               03/25/2021
                                                                               08/10/2023

     d. Where the cost of personal property is any amount in excess of $100,000.1 the
        Fire Chief or Fire Chief's Designee shall be required to follow the formal
        biddingsoHcitation process set forth in section 6 or section 7 herein.of this
        policy.

3:   Procurement of Special Services

     a. The District may contract for special services (as defined in the Definitions
        section of this policy) with persons or expert firms specially trained,
        experienced, and competent to perform the special service.

     b. The Fire Chief or Fire Chief's Designee is hereby authorized to enter into
        · agreements, by which independent contractors provide such special services
          to the District. Any special service contract or agreement that is less than
          $100,000 can be entered into without the informal aiesolicitation process,
          providing the Fire Chief or the Fire Chief's Designee has researched all options
          and has determined that the decision is based on the best value for the District.

     c. Afly-Except as otherwise provided herein, any Special Service contract or
        agreement as defined herein, which is expected to exceed $100,000 shall be
        solicited through the formal biddingsolicitation process.

4.   Purchases Services Less Than J!QJQ $45,000

     a. These purchases are known as "Best Judgment Purchases~,.'.'. This means that
        individual purchases for personal property or services less thanup to $45,000
        can be completed using the purchaser's best judgment. Informal bidding is
        encouraged at this level by getting phone quotes over the phone or email
        (preferred), or by using the internet to researchdocument competitor pricing
        and make sure the District is receiving the best value. A purchase order is
        required for any transaction over $1,000.

     b,-For those purchases of personal property and services that do not require the
        formal or informal biddingsolicitation process, staff is encouraged tomust
        research, and evaluate to make sure the District is getting the best value, aRG
        assureensuring that the best price is obtained for the particular goods or
        service taking into consideration the total cost of ownership (TCO).

     &.-Q,.This can be achieved by obtaining, if available, a minimum of three comparison
          bid evaluations using verbal and/or written quotations, or any other method of
         obtaining comparison costing or estimates.                                           ,,.

5.   Informal BiddingSolicitation     Process    (Purchases     totaling   $45,000.01    to
     $100,000.00)

     a. When the expenditure required for the purchase of personal property or
        services is in excess of $45,000 but less than .01 and up to $100,000.00
        District staff is required to obtain , procurement of the personal property or



                                                                                61Page

                                                                                                    P29
                                                                   Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                     01.010.03
                                                                                    03/25/2021
                                                                                    08/10/2023

               services must be obtained through the following informal biddingsolicitation
               process-,-~

       b. Procedure:
          _
          i. _Fill outObtain and complete the Informal Bid/Proposal Form found at
               P:\ Forms~.Purchasing Forms\on Metro Apps > Documents.
        hii.      Obtain at least three (3) written quotes. If three (3) quotes were not
                  acquired, a detailed explanation detailing why the required number of
                  quotes were not obtained must be provided on the Informal Bid/Proposal
                  Form. This exception may be approved at the discretion of the purchasing
                  agent if it is determined that the making of the purchase without three (3)
                  quotes is reasonably necessary for the conduct of District business.
                                                      '
               1. Obtain at least three (3) quotes.
       ihfil__Submit Informal Bid Form and all quotes to Purchasing for review and enter
              into INCODEEnter a requisJtion for the purchase.purchase into the District's
              financial system. A completed Informal Bid/Proposal Form and all quotes
              (if applicable) shall be attached to the requisition for Purchasing to review.
              Upon approval from Purchasing, a purchase order will be issue.d .


6.     Informal Proposal Formal Solicitation Process

+-<_6._When the expenditure required for the purcha_ se of personal property or services
       is in excess of $45,000 but loss than (Purchases Exceeding $100,000,--af\€1
       detailed ~peoifications are unknown ot a solution is being sought, District staff is
       required to obtain personal property or services through the informal proposal
       process. }

       a. Procedure:
               1. Fill out the Informal Proposal Form found at P:\_Forms\Purchasing
                  Forms\lnformal Proposal Form.
               2. Obtain at least three (3) quotes.
               3. Submit Informal Proposal Form and all quotes to Purchasing for review
                  and.enter into INCODE a requisition for the purchase. Upon approval
                  from Purchasing , a purchase order will be issued.

8.     Formal Bidding Process

       a. Except as otherwise provided herein, when the expenditure required for the
          purchase of personal property or services exceeds $100,000, the District shall
          ~notify Purchasing to initiate the formal biddingsolicitation process~
          Contract shall be awarded to the most responsive and award the contract to
          the lo1,\1est responsible bidder atoffering the best value to the District.,..., and is
          subject to approval by the Board.

       b. Procedure:


                                                                                     71Pag e

                                                                                                    P30
                                                                       Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                       01.010.03
                                                                                      03/25/2021
                                                                                      08/10/2023

            1. Fill out the Formal Bid Form found at P:\_Forms',Purchasing
               Forms\Formal Bid Form.
            2. Submit completed form to Purchasing for publishing and solicitation for          '
                 sealed bids.
            3. Purchasing will handle all further actions required.

Q.   Formal Proposal Process

     L'Nhen the expenditure required for the pu rchase Purchasing will conduct all
        correspondence with suppliers involving prices or quotations for formal
        solicitations. Only Purchasing is authorized to release formal solicitation
        information related to vendor prices, quotations, questions, or related
        information.                         ,·

7.   Exception to Bidding

     a. Purchases may be allowed without competitive bidding under the following
        circumstances:

          i.     When the aggregate or cumulative price to be paid under the purchase
                 contract is one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or less, unless
                 otherwise required by state law.
           i.     \Nt=ien a aatente€l er arearietarv iteFn is ~einfil awrnt=iase€k
          ii.     In the event of an Emergency.
      iii.        When the following types of personal property or services is in excess of
                  $100,000, and detailed specifications are unknown or a solution is being
                  sought, District staff is required to obtain personal property or being
                  acquired, obtained, rented or leased:

                  A.      Advertising;
                  B.      Books, recordings, motion picture films, subscriptions;
                  C.      Election supplies;
                  D.      Insurance;
                  E.      Public utility services~
                  F.      Travel services;
                  AG.     Property or services provided by or through the formal proposal
                          process.other governmental agencies; or obtainable from
                          suppliers which have in force a current contract with another
                          governmental agency for the same item or service


     a.         Procedure:




                                                                                       8jPage


                                                                                                    P31
                                                                       Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                       01.010.03
                                                                                       03/25/2021
                                                                                       08/10/2023

                    :. . :He:. . .__Fill outProperty or services the Formal Proposal Form found at
                                    P:\ Forms\price of which is fixed by law.

       iv.          When a patented or proprietary item is being purchased (including
                    single/sole source).

        v.          When the branch Deputy Chief and Purchasing Forms\Formal Proposal
                    f-0!:mAgent determines that making of a purchase without competitive
                    proposals is reasonably necessary for the conduct of District business.

      Submit completed form b. Exception to PurchasingFormal Solicitation Process:
                ~    If purchase does not qualify for one 6f the exceptions to competitive
                     bidding detailed in Section 7, Part a., i-iii, a request for an exception
                     from the formal solicitation proce ss shall be made. Requests for
                     publishing andan exception from the formal solicitation for sealed bids.
                2. Purchasing will handle all further actions required .

10.   Request for Qualification

           i.            When the District is seeking individual firms to do business 1Nith, to
                         establish a multiple award schedule, or to establish a qualified vendor
                         list, staff is required to process shall follow the Request for
                         Qualificationthis process outlined herein.~


      b.        Pro6edure:
                    A.      Fill out the Fill out the Request for Exception to Formal Solicitation
                            Process Form and Disclosure Statement found on Metro Apps >
                            Documents
                    B.      Subniit completed form and any applicable supporting
                            documentation to branch Deputy Chief and Purchasing for review
                            and preliminary approval.
                    C.       Submit to Board of Directors for r.eview and approval.


=
8-'--
  . _ _ Request for Qualification Form found at P:\_Forms\Purchasing Forms\Vendor
        RequestProcess

      a.        When the District is seeking to establish a pre-qualified list of
                suppliers/vendors for Qualification Formthe purpose of streamlining future
                formal solicitation processes for similar or comparable goods or services the
                pre-qualified list must be established through the following Request for
                Qualifications (RFQ) process.
                1. Submit completed form to Purchasing for publication and solicitation of
                    fifm&.




                                                                                       9 j Page


                                                                                                     P32
                                                                    Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                     01.010.03
                                                                                    03/25/2021
                                                                                    08/10/2023

             i.    Purchasing shall work with the divisional budget officer to prepare an
                   RFQ document that describes the type of goods or services and identifies
                   the minimum qualifications required for a supplier/vendor to be eligible to
                   respond to future formal solicitations for that type of goods or services.

            ii.    Only Purchasing is authorized to issue RFQ documents. Purchasing will
                   handleconduct all further actions requiredcorrespondence with suppliers
                   related to the RFQ process.

          hiii.    A pre-qualified list of suppliers/vendors may be established at the
                   conclusion of the RFQ process to include suppliers/vendors with
                   demonstrated qualifications and experience. These suppliers/vendors
                   will become eligible to respond to future formal solicitations for similar or
                   comparable goods or services.

4:h-LContracts
        a. When the Board determines that it is in the public interest, the District may
           contract with any other public or· private agency for fire protection services,
           rescue services, emergency medical services, hazardous material emergency
           response services, ambulance services, and any other emergency services for
           the protection of lives c1nd property.

        b. All contracts for consulting services shall require review by Legal Counsel.

        c. All confracts for goods and services eveFUP to the informal bid amountthreshold
           of $45,000 shall require the review and approval of Purchasing.

10. _   Conflict of Interest

        a. The Fire Chief, Fire Chief's Designee, or Board of Directors shall ensure that
           any purchase of any personal propertyPersonal Property or special
           servicesSpecial Services shall be in compliance with California Government
           Code Section 87100 et. seq., pertaining to Conflict of Interest. All transactions
           over $10,000 •,viii require an additional Disclosure Statement to safeguard ·
           against any financial interest or personal relationship with the vendor that may
           be deemed a confli<;:t., which states:
                             "
                  A public official at any level of state or local government shall not make,
                  participate in making, or in any way attempt to use the public official's
                  official position to influence a governmental decision in which the official
                  knows or has reason to know the official has a financial interest.

11. _   Bid Splitting Prohibited

        a. It is unlawful, for the purpose of evading any requirements herein, to split or
           separate into smaller units of purchase any purchase covered by this policy.

12. _   Former District Employees

                                                                                    101Page


                                                                                                   P33
                                                                  Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                    01.010.03
                                                                                   03/25/2021
                                                                                   08/10/2023


      a. For the three (3) year period from the date the former District employee left
         District employment, no former District employee may enter into or participate
         in a contract in which they engaged in any of the negotiations, transactions,
         planning arrangements or any part of the decision-: making process relevant to
         the contract while employed in any capacity by the District.

14.   Construction Contracting

13.   Public Projects

      &.-The District has adoptedelected to become subject to the procedures outlined
         in the Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Act and as such requires
         a bid process for the construction or completion (Act) . Public projects of aflY
         building, structure, or improvement. 'A'hen the expenditure required for the
         project is expected to exceed $45sixty thousand dollars ($60,000-BHt) or less
         than $1 00may be performed by the employees of the District by force
         account, by negotiated contract, or by purchase order. Public projects of two
         hundred thousand dollars ($200,000, it shall lie contracted for and awarded
         to the lowest responsible bidder by the Disttict's ) or less may be let to
         contract by informal bidding process in conjunction with the procedures of.as
         set forth in the UniformAct. Public Construction Cost Accounting Act.

      a. For construction projects estimated to be of more than $100,000, the
         District'stwo hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) shall, except as otherwise
         provided in the Act. be let to contra,Gt by formal biddirig process will be follm•.ied
         in conjunction 1Nith the procedures of the Uniform Public Construction Cost
         Accounting Actprocedure. Such formal and informal bidding procedures are
         outlined in the California Government Code, commencing with Section 22030.


      b. Procedure:
          1. Fill out the Formal Bid Form found at P:\_Forms\Purchasing
              Forms\Formal Bid Form
         2. Submit completed form to Purchasing for publishing and solicitation for
              sealed bids.
          3. Purchasing ❖;ill handle all further actions required by the Uniform Public
              Construction Cost Accounting Act.

15.   In cases of Emergency

      a. In the case of an emergency, the Board may adopt by resolution or motion
         and by a majority vote of all members of the Board, to when repair or replace
         a public facility, take any directly related and immediate action required by
         that emergency, and procure thereplacements are necessary equipment,
         services, and supplies for those purposes, without giving notice for bids to let
         contracts.



                                                                                  11IPage

                                                                                                  P34
                                                                  Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                  01.010.03
                                                                                  03/25/2021
                                                                                  08/10/2023

        b. Before the Board takes any action pursuant to section 15a of this policy, it , the
           District shall make a finding, based on substantial evidence set forthfollow the
           Emergency Contracting Procedures detailed in the minutes of its meeting, that
           the emergency will not permit a delay for the purposes of a competitive
           solicitation for bids, and that the action is necessary to respond to the
           emergencyCalifornia Public Contract Code, Section 22050.

        b. If the Fire Chief or Fire Chief's Designee orders any action specified in
           section 15a of this policy, that person shall report to the Board at its next
           meeting the reasons justifying why the emergency will not permit a delay
           resulting from a competitive solicitation for bids and why the action is
           necessary to respond to the emergency.

14. _   District PurchasingProcurement Card

        a. The District issues a purchasin~ card procurement cards to certain individuals
           for District use only. Requests for a purchasing card will be sent to the
           Controller.-specific purchases. All purchases made with the District Purchasing
           Gamprocurement card must--fu:st meet ALL procurement requirements stated
           in this document.,... AND closely adhere to the District's procurement card policy,
           which includes these provisions:

        b. A Purchase Order is required for all procurements that exceed $1 ,000.

           _
           i. _ ~District procurement cards.may only be used as a purchase option for
                small purchases up to $1000, when items are not available from Logistics.
           ii.   District procurement cards may only be used for official business and may
                 not be used for personal purchases under any circumstances.
          iii.   District procurement cards are only issued to cardholders who have
                 certified that they understand and will comply with all related District
                 policies.
         iv.     District procurement cards may be suspended or revoked due to misuse.
          v.     District procurement cards shall not be used for grant funded purchases.
                 Any exceptions to this must be approved by the grant management team
                 prior to making a purchase.


15.     Capital Asset Policy

        a. The District has a ~Capital Asset Policy to provide a mechanism for
           controlling property acquisition, availability, transfer, disposal and proper
           documentation. - Specifics can be found in the ~District's Capital Asset
           Policy 106.01 .

4-816. Purchases Made Wi-tflwith Federal Grant Funds




                                                                                  12jPag e

                                                                                                 P35
                                                            Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                            01.010.03
                                                                           03/25/2021
                                                                           08/10/2023

     a. Grant Purchases shall follow all procurement standards as outlined in 2 Code
        of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 200, specifically sections 200.317 through
        200.326. If this policy deviates from the Federal procurement standards as set
        forth in 2 CFR 200 in any way, the District shall follow the more restrictive
        standard for all procurements involving Federal funds.

References

1.   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ~Capital Asset Po1icy 106.01

2.   Grants Management Procedures 05-2021

3.   All current policies can be found in the Pol,isy App
2.   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Procurement Card Policy

3.   California Public Contract Code

4.   Sacramento County Purchasing Code




                                                                           13 IP a g e


                                                                                         P36
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702



ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief



     DATE:         August 24, 2023

     TO:            Board of Directors

  SUBJECT:          Administration Policy
                    Policy 02.021.01 - Financial Planning and Budget Policy



                                                   TOPIC

     Review new Administrative Policy 02.021.01 Financial Planning and Budget Policy.

                                                SUMMARY

     This policy provides and formalizes processes used to develop, administer, and report on
     the District's budget.

                                               DISCUSSION

     Attached is the new Financial Planning and Budget Policy 02.021.01 . The Financial
     Planning and Budget Policy serves a guide for District fiscal planning, deliberations and
     decisions toward maintaining long-term financial stability, providing adequate funding for
     Capital Improvement Program (CIP) expenditures, and accelerating payment of unfunded
     liabilities. This policy will assist the Board in making informed choices about the provision
     of District services and management of capital assets, and facilitate effective and
     informed budget input by District constituents.

     This policy guides the development of the District's annual budget and directs Finance
     Division staff on budget development practices, including recognition of year-end
     revenues and calculation of the General Fund reserve.

      This policy was approved by the Policy Committee on August 10 with the request that it
      be presented to th e Board of Directors for consideration and comment.


                                             FISCAL IMPACT
      No fiscal impact.




                                    Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                               P37
Page 2


                                            RECOMMENDATION

         Administration Policy review is for informational purposes only as previously directed by the
         Policy Committee.



         Submitted by:                                      Approved by:



         ~(91~
         Dave O'Toole                                       Adam House
         Chief Financial Officer                            Fire Chief




                                      Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                         P38
            Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                             ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY
POLICY TITLE:     Financial Planning and Budget Policy        OVERSIGHT:     Finance
POLICY NUMBER:    XX.XXX.XX EFFECTIVE DATE: Xx/xx/xx         REVIEW DATE:    Xx/xx/xx


 Background
 The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (District) is an independent special district
 governed by an elected Board of Directors (Board) responsible for ensuring the
 appropriate expenditure of all property taxes, emergency medical service (EMS) fees,
 and other income sources.

 This policy serves as a guiding document for the District and Board, directing financial
 planning and annual budget practices that will support long-term fiscal sustainability.

 This policy was adopted by the Board of Directors and implemented with the FY 2023/24
 Final Budget.

 Purpose
 The purpose of this policy is to guide District fiscal planning, deliberations and
 decisions toward maintaining long-term financial stability, providing adequate funding
 for Capital Improvement Program (CIP) expenditures, and accelerating payment of
 unfunded liabilities. This policy will assist the Board in making informed choices about
 the provision of District services and management of capital assets, and facilitate
 effective and informed budget input by District constituents.

 This policy guides the development of the District's annual budget and directs Finance
 Division staff on budget development practices, including recognition of year-end
 revenues and calculation of the General Fund reserve.

  Scope
 This policy applies to all District personnel.


  Definition
  1.     Balanced Budget: An annual budget in which operating revenues and any one-
         time revenues are greater than or equal to ongoing operating expenditures.

  2.     Capital Improvement Program (CIP): A multi-year plan that identifies neieded
         capital projects and equipment, provides a planning schedule, and financing
         options.

  3.     CIP Reserves: Reserves accumulated for the purchase of apparatus,
         equipment, and the construction, rehabilitation, and improvements to District
         facilities and properties. These reserves are comprised of the reserves from both
         the Capital Facilities Fund and the Development Impact Fees Fund.


                                                                                   llPage

                                                                                             P39
                                                               Financial Planning and Budget
                                                                               Policy Number
                                                                          Policy Review Date

4.    Encumbrances: Commitments related to unperformed (executory) contracts for
      gooqs or services (i.e., purchase orders, contracts, and commitments).

5.    Final Budget: Using the preliminary budget as a basis, the District budget
      scheduled and developed for consideration by the Board before October 1 every
      year. The final budget is subsequently updated in the Midyear Budget.

6.    Five-Year Budget Forecast: A budget forecast including the upcoming fiscal
      year and at least four (4) additional years, displaying major revenue and
      expenditure sources, transfers, ending General Fund reserve balance, and
      General Fund reserve ratio.

7.    Fund Balance: Governmental Fund balance sheet assets less liabilities, equals
      fund balance. Accountants distinguish up to five (5) separate categories of fund
      balance, based on the extent to which the government is bound to honor specific
      purposes spending constraints.

8.    General Fund: For budgeting and reporting purposes, the District records all
      transactions in the General Fund that are not specifically accounted for in any
      other fund. The other funds include the Capital Facilities Fund, the Leased
      Properties Fund, the Grant Fund, the Development Impact Fees Fund, the
      Intergovernmental Transfer (IGT) Fund, and Special Projects Fund.

9.    Labor Budget: A component of the District's budget comprising compensation
      (e.g., wages, overtime, constant staffing, leave balances used, and incentives)
      and benefits (e.g., pensions, workers' compensation, and employee medical,
      dental, and vision insurance).

10.   Midyear Budget: Based on the approved Final Budget for that fiscal year and
      incorporating actual revenue and expenditure information from the first six
      months of the fiscal year and projections for the last six months, the Midyear
      Budget provides updated budget information and is considered by the Board
      before April 1 every year.

11.   Operating revenues: For purposes of this policy, operating revenues are
      defined as District revenue in the General Fund and any transfers to the General
      Fund that have either been (a) transferred to the General Fund for each of the
      five (5) prior fiscal years or (b) transferred from a program established and
      funded through state or federal law and does not have an expiration or sunset
      date. Operating revenues do not include revenues or transfers to the General
      Fund that are known to be one-time.

12.   Operating expenditures: District expenditures paid from General Fund
      balances, including transfers from the General Fund to other funds.

13.   Preliminary Budget: The District Budget scheduled and developed for
      consideration by the Board before July 1 every year. The Preliminary Budget is
      subsequently updated in the Final Budget and Midyear Budget.




                                           2

                                                                                               P40
                                                                  Financial Planning and Budget
                                                                                  Policy Number
                                                                             Policy Review Date


Policy
1.   Budget Development Process

     a. The District prepares and presents to the Finance and Audit Committee and
        Board of Directors three (3) separate budget plans: the Preliminary Budget
        Final Budget and Midyear Budget.

     b. The District's budget development process follows these seven (7) steps for
        each budget process (Preliminary Budget, Final Budget, and Midyear Budget):

             i. The Finance Division prepares and distributes to division budget personnel
                a calendar for the upcoming budget process.

            ii. Divisions input their budget requests into the financial management
                system.

            iii. Divisions explain and discuss their requests with branch leadership and the
                 Finance team.

            iv. Requests are evaluated and presented to the District's executive
                management team, and adjustments are identified to ensure proposed
                expenditures match available revenues and the District's strategic direction
                and priorities.

            v. The Finance Division prepares and presents budget materials for the
               Finance and Audit Committee and Board.

            vi. The Board amends (if necessary) and ultimately adopts the proposed
                Budget.

           vii. The Finance Division monitors revenues and expenditures, and reports
                variances in bimonthly fiscal reports, or as often as necessary to ensure
                the Board is informed about unanticipated budget trends.

         c. Appropriations in all budgeted funds lapse at the end of the fiscal year, even if
            there are related encumbrances. Valid outstanding encumbrances (those for
            which performance under an executory contract is anticipated in the next year)
            must be re-appropriated in the Final Budget.

         d. Budget Transfers

             i. Transfers between District funds or objects (salaries and benefits, services
                and supplies, capital outlay, and debt service or other expenditures) must
                be approved by the Board.

             ii. Transfers within the same fund or object (salaries and benefits, services
                 and supplies, capital outlay, and debt service or other expenditures),
                 including transfers within divisions and between divisions, must be
                        '


                                              3

                                                                                                  P41
                                                                   Financial Planning and Budget
                                                                                   Policy Number
                                                                              Policy Review Date

                approved by the Deputy Chief(s) overseeing the division(s) affected by the
                transfer.

2.   Balanced Budget

     a. The District shall endeavor to propose balanced budgets for all funds, as
          defined above. If a balanced General Fund budget is not proposed, the budget
          shall specify the amount and share of General Fund reserves to be used.

     b. The District shall also endeavor to achieve a projected General Fund budget
        that is balanced for all years included in the Five-Year Budget Forecast.

3.   Financial Stability

      a. The District will strive to achieve sustained financial stability by:

           i.     Building Capital Facilities Fund balances that accumulate and deplete in
                  harmony with the needs and timing of capital projects identified in the
                  five-year CIP Plan and capital outlay budget, and

          ii.     Facilitating accelerated payment of the District's unfunded liabilities.

4.   General Fund Reserve

     a. In order to minimize the variance between Final Budget and Midyear Budget
        revenues, expenditures, and transfers, the beginning General Fund reserve
        reported in the Final Budget shall incorporate the most up-to-date prior year
        revenue, expenditure, and transfer data available when the Final Budget is
        prepared.

     b. The District shall strive to maintain a reserve ratio in the General Fund set at
        15 percent of General Fund expenditures for unplanned emergencies.

     c. The reserve ratio will be calculated and established at budget adoption
        (Preliminary Budget, Final Budget, or Midyear Budget).

     d. For purposes of calculating the General Fund reserve ratio, accelerated
        payments toward unfunded liabilities, expenditures approved as a one-time
        expenditure in the given fiscal year, and operating transfers out of the General
        Fund to other funds tci support one-time expenditures in those funds (e.g.,
        capital outlay in the Capital Facilities Fund) are excluded.

     e. The General Fund reserve calculation shall incorporate the estimated balance
        of General Fund on June 30 of the budget year.

     f.   Calculation

          i. The General Fund reserve shall be determined by first calculating the
             projected fund balance of the General Fund at the end of the fiscal year,



                                              4

                                                                                                   P42
                                                                    Financial Planning and Budget
                                                                                    Policy Number
                                                                               Policy Review Date

              incorporating all General Fund revenues, expenditures, and financing
              sources and uses. This calculation is the numerator of the reserve ratio.

          ii. The denominator of the reserve ratio shall be the projected General Fund
              expenditures (excluding capital and one-time expenditures) and other
              financing uses, including transfers out (excluding any capital outlay support
              cost transfers to other funds).

          iii. The reserve ratio is calculated by dividing i by ii above.

5.   One-Time and Limited Term Revenues

     a. The District recognizes the considerable financial risk posed by applying one-
        time and limited term revenue sources to long-term expenditures.

     b. The District will only pay for ongoing expenditures from recurring operating
        revenue sources as defined in this policy.

6.   Excess Reserves

     a. In March of each year, after the Fifteen (15) percent General Fund reserve ratio
        has been achieved, the remaining surplus shall be allocated as follows:

           i. Fifty (50) percent of the remaining surplus shall be transferred to the Capital
              Facilities Fund for capital improvement expenditures, and

          ii. Fifty (50) percent shall be allocated as accelerated payment of District's
              unfunded liabilities (first toward pension liability until achieving an eighty-five
              (85) percent funding level, and then toward Other Post Employment Benefit
              costs).

     b. If the Fifty (50) percent allocation to the Capital Facilities Fund, when combined
        with planned revenues from the Capital Facilities Fund is sufficient to fund that
        year's capital expenditures in the Capital Facilities Fund, then the remainder
        shall be allocated as an accelerated payment of the District's unfunded
        liabilities.

7.   Labor Cost as a Share of General Fund Revenues Calculation

     a. For purposes of budget information, labor cost as a share of General Fund
        revenues shall be calculated by dividing the budgeted costs of labor expenses
        (numerator) by all General Fund operating revenues (denominator), as
        defined.

8.   Five-Year Budget Forecast

     a.     The Five-Year Budget Forecast shall be used as a budget tool updated
            annually in conjunction with the preliminary and final budget for projected
            revenues and expenditures.



                                              5

                                                                                                    P43
                                                                 Financial Planning and Budget
                                                                                 Policy Number
                                                                            Policy Review Date

     b.   The Five-Year Budget Forecast will also be updated whenever a significant
          financial event occurs or is anticipated to occur mid-year in order to assess
          the severity of the impact.

     c.   The Five-Year Budget Forecast shall also be evaluated before undertaking
          any significant financial commitment to ensure the District's fiscal health will
          be maintained.

     d.   Accuracy.

          i. Data included in the first two (2) years of the forecast is the most predictable
             and reliable.

          ii. Data contained in later years of the forecast is less reliable due to
              uncertainties regarding items such as future property tax growth, service
              costs, and capital needs. Although less reliable, the information is a useful
              indicator of trends and the potential need for early corrective intervention.

References
  1. Debt Management Policy

  2. Reserve Funding Policy

  3. Capital Asset Policy

  4. Capital Improvement Program Policy




                                            6

                                                                                                 P44
