       l           I
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   ~u,'.#
   DAN HAVERTY
                         10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700


   Interim Fire Chief


                                  BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                               Thursday, August 24, 2023 - 6:00 PM
                                               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                                    10545 Armstrong Avenue
D'Elrnan Clark                                     Board Room - Second Floor
Board President
Division 6
                                                        Mather, California
                                                                            &
Grant Goold                                        Remotely Via Zoom
Board Vice President
Division 2                                  Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
                                                 Passcode: metro2101
Ted Wood
Board Secretary                      Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Division 4                                     lif Passcode: 838771796 #
Cinthia Saylors         https://us06web.zoom .us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZV
Board Member                                        QVh4d 1VWZz09
Division 1

Robert Webber
Board Member            The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 3
                            and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.
Jennifer Sheetz
Board Member
Division 5              The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Brian Rice
                        the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
Board Member            appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
Division 7              Application, please click on the link above.
Gay Jones
Board Member            Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Division 8              reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
John Costa              reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
Board Member            advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Division 9              accommodations:

                                                                Marni Rittburg
                                                                  Board Clerk
                                                                (916) 859-4305
                                                       rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                           Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                    THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 2023


►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District will be cablecast on Metro Cable 14,
the local government affairs channel on Comcast, Consolidated Communications and AT&T U-
Verse cable systems. This meeting is also webcast at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov. Today's
meeting replays at 2:00 p.m. on Sunday, August 27, 2023 and 6:00 p.m. on Monday, August 28,
2023 on Channel 14. This meeting can also be viewed at youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and encourages
public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public members wishing
to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding officer and identify
themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of time and good order, limit
the number of public member presentations. Speakers' comments will be limited to three (3)
minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members of
the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be present or
have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.


CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                   Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                          5
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of July 13, 2023.

2.     Revision of Board Policy - Policy 01.010.03 Purchasing and Contracting                                          14
       Policy
       Recommendation: Approve the Purchasing and Contracting Policy
       revisions.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 2023


PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.   Financial Planning and Budget Policy - Policy 02.021.01                                                     37
     (CFO Dave O'Toole)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation , no action required.

2.   Service Delivery Update                                                                                    **
     (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
     Recommendation: Receiye presentation , no action required.

REPORTS:
1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                (President Clark)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Chief House)
           OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
           ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - ( Chief Development Officer Jeff Frye)
           SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

3.   SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice
     President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

     A.     Executive Committee - (President Clark)
            Next Meeting: TBD

     B.     Communications Center JPA - (DC Wagaman)
            Next Meeting : September 12, 2023 at 9:00 AM

     C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
            Next Meeting: August 24, 2023 at 5:00 PM
            Report Out: August 24, 2023

     D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
            Next Meeting: September 14, 2023

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

ADJOURNMENT
                         Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                         THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 2023


NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

    •    Regular Board Meeting - September 14, 2023 at 6:00 PM
    •    Regular Board Meeting - September 28, 2023 at 6:00 PM

Posted on August 21, 2023 by 4:30 p.m.



Marni Rittburg,      c,cpM
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
•'l'.Eill Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
