                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                            Thursday, October 23, 2025 – 6:00 PM
Ted Wood                                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                   10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4
                                                 Board Room – Second Floor
John Costa                                            Mather, California
Board Vice President
Division 9
                                                              &
                                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                    Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                     Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                    Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member            https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFlLQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Division 1

Grant Goold
Board Member           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D’Elman Clark
Board Member
                       Application, please click on the link above.
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member           reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member           accommodations:
Division 8
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2025


 CALL TO ORDER

 ROLL CALL

 PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro14live.saccounty.gov. Today’s meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
October 27, 2025, and again at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, October 29, 2025, on Metro
Cable Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand
at youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the
presiding officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the
interest of time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations.
Speakers’ comments will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures,
members of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting
record must be present or have a representative present to read their comments during
the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral
of issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly
approval, declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent
Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion
and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                    Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                             6
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of September 25, 2025.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                              THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2025


2.   Approval for Exception To Formal Solicitation Process – Overhaul of              11
     Copter 1 Transmission
     Recommendation: Approve the request for Exception to the Formal Solicitation
     Process and award a contract to Rotocraft Support, Inc. for Copter 1 Transmission
     Overhaul.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.   CalPERS CERBT & CEPPT Account Update                                                                               21
     (Chief Financial Officer Dave O’Toole & Therese Luo, CalPERS)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation.

2.   Annual Pension Valuation & Metro 14 Comparison                                                                     44
     (Chief Financial Officer Dave O’Toole)
     Recommendation: Receive the presentation.

3.   Behavioral Health Response Update #4                                                                               55
     (Deputy Chief Mitchell, Battalion Chief Daly & Director of Government Affairs
     Kyle Macdonald)
     Recommendation: Receive the presentation.

PUBLIC HEARING:

1.   Introduction and First Reading of Proposed Ordinance 2025-02, Amending            66
     2025 California Fire Code, Title 24, California Code of Regulations, Part 9
     (Deputy Fire Marshal Diana Schmidt)
     Recommendation: Conduct a Public Hearing and introduce Ordinance 2025-02,
     by title only, waiving the first reading, and proceed with scheduling the second
     reading and adoption for November 13, 2025, to adopt Ordinance 2025-02,
     thereby adopting and amending the 2025 California Fire Code, Title 24, California
     Code of Regulations, Part 9.

ACTION ITEMS:
1.   Sacramento Local Agency Formation Commission (LAFCo) – Election of                                                 125
     Special District Representative
     (Board Clerk Marni Rittburg)
     Recommendation: Nominate and vote to elect candidates to serve as Special
     District Representative to Sacramento LAFCo.
REPORTS:
1.   PRESIDENT’S REPORT — (President Wood)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT — (Chief House)
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2025


                OPERATIONS REPORT – (Deputy Chief Wagaman) – No Report

                ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT – (Deputy Chief Fiorica) – No Report

                SUPPORT & EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES REPORT – (Deputy
                Chief Mitchell) – No Report

3.       SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
         522 Vice President)

4.       COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
         All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
         Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

         A.    Executive Committee – (President Wood)
               Next Meeting: TBD

         B.    Communications Center JPA – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
               Next Meeting: October 28, 2025, at 9:00 AM
               SRFECC Annex – 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite B, Sacramento

         C.    Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Jones)
               Next Meeting: January 22, 2026, at 5:30 PM

         D.     Policy Committee – (Director Costa)
                Next Meeting: November 13, 2025, at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter(s):

1.       Public Employee Performance Evaluation: Board Clerk
         Pursuant to Government Code Sections 54957(b)(1) and 54954.5(e)

2.       Public Employee Performance Evaluation: Fire Chief
         Pursuant to Government Code Sections 54957(b)(1) and 54954.5(e)

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •   Regular Board Meeting – November 13, 2025, at 6:00 PM
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                      THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2025


Posted on October 20, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.

_____________________________________
Marni Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
*    Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility.
