Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
Tuesday, October 3, 2023 – 6:30 p.m.

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Lefkovitz called the regular meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Other Board
members present: Trustees Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Alfred Brown, Harold Fong
(arrived at 7:24 p.m.), Heather Davis, and Paul Keefer. Trustee Joanne Ahola was
absent.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Acting
General Counsel Elizabeth Linton; Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer;
Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White; Executive Directors Michael Kast and Jerry
Jones; and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

President Lefkovitz read a land acknowledgement in honor of local and state Indigenous
Peoples’ Day.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Brown led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

There were no public comments.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no comments from employee organizations.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of August 15, 2023

Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of August 15, 2023 by
Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown
10.03.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                       1
Not Present at Vote: Fong
Absent: Ahola

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Adoption of Agenda

Motion to approve the adoption of the agenda as presented by Trustee Brown, second
by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown
Not Present at Vote: Fong
Absent: Ahola

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

LITERACY
The Sacramento County READS! internal advisory team met last Thursday for a
progress update and next steps on a countywide literacy landscape analysis, as well as
to further align resources and teams from Early Learning, Curriculum and Instruction,
English Language Development, Expanded Learning, School of Education, Adult
Education, and Communications.

Our literacy team attended the viewing of the film, “A Right to Read”—thank you,
President Lefkovitz for taking a leadership and advocacy role in this critical social justice
event.

Last Friday, our own Becky Sullivan co-hosted a luncheon discussion with local school
district leaders on the topic of literacy within the county. Then, on Saturday, many team
leaders and SCOE staff, in collaboration with the Sacramento Literacy Coalition, took
part in the Oak Park Literacy Festival which was attended by hundreds of families.

Today, EdSource published a joint statement from SCOE, the Reading League, and the
National Committee for Effective Literacy that addresses the Science of Reading.

Lastly, related to literacy, tomorrow, the California Dyslexia Initiative is hosting a
professional learning network (PLN) to give educators the opportunity to collaborate and
learn from leading experts in partnership with the California Department of Education
(CDE), the California Collaborative for Educational Excellence (CCEE), and the
California State Board of Education (SBE).
10.03.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                              2
Tomorrow night, SCOE is hosting the Sacramento County School Boards Association
dinner featuring keynote speaker Dr. Tracy White Weeden, a renowned literacy expert.
Registration opens at 5:30 p.m. And the next day, on October 5, we will hold the first of
our five literacy Communities of Practice (CoP) with more than 60 registered attendees.

SCHOOL-BASED MENTAL HEALTH AND WELLNESS
We continue to make progress with our expansion efforts to place a mental health
clinician in each Sacramento County school.

Last week, SCOE kicked off its Social Emotional Learning (SEL) CoP series, which
builds on our Transformative SEL for Adults series from last year in partnership with the
UCLA Center for the Developing Child. This scientist-led series shares practical insights
from adolescent development research, including the neuroscience underlying rapid
learning and connections. Together, we will consider how we can equitably support the
developmental needs of our young people as they develop a healthy sense of identity,
agency, belonging, curiosity, and collaborative problem solving to help them thrive into
adulthood.

Related to our SEL work, SCOE will be acknowledged for our contributions in California
and to the state CalHOPE project and will be named a co-author of a research study to
be published in an issue of Social and Emotional Learning: Research, Practice, and
Policy.

Speaking of positive mentions, our SCOE Board was featured in an article published in
the Sacramento County’s Behavioral Health Youth Advisory Board (BHYAB) September
Newsletter. The youth advisors who attended our last Board meeting were thankful for
having an opportunity to share their voices and their mental health recommendations for
youth with the SCOE Board.

WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
The School of Education is preparing for their recruitment into the Teacher Intern
Program, aiming to attract another 50 candidates into this unique teacher credentialing
program.

SCOE SCHOOLS
Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School hosted Back to School Night, on September 20.
President Lefkovitz and Trustees Brown and Corona Sabeniano were in attendance for
a delicious BBQ meal prepared by our Culinary Arts' students, followed by tours of
classrooms and the Horticulture program.

From September 26 through September 28, 10 leaders from our SCOE schools, Special
Education programs, and curriculum collaboration team attended the Professional
Learning Communities (PLC) at Work Conference in Pasadena, California. The leaders
were there to learn about bringing PLC to our SCOE programs. The team was inspired
by world-renowned speakers, including Dr. Anthony Muhammad, who challenged the
1,000-school staff present to develop systems to ensure all students have high levels of
learning every day. Additional SCOE leaders will attend the conference at the end of
November. This work is funded as part of our Educator Effectiveness grant.
10.03.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            3
Next week, we celebrate our school administrators for their unwavering commitment to
public education during California’s School Administrator’s Week, recognizing each of
them for the profound impact they have on our educational community.

On Thursday, October 12, we are excited for the Palmiter Culinary Café opening for the
2023–2024 school year. Lunch will be served at noon. It is the Culinary Café’s 25th year
of excellence in culinary education.

On October 23, in the SCOE Conference Center, Dr. Sharroky Hollie will return to work
with our SCOE school staff on Culturally and Linguistically Responsive Instruction. This
work is also part of our Educator Effectiveness grant.

UPCOMING EVENTS
On October 11, SCOE and MENTOR California are sponsoring an event to bring
together artists and mentors who inspire and work with youth through “The Stories We
Tell.” The event will be held at the Brickhouse Gallery & Art Complex from 5:30 p.m. to
7:30 p.m.

Then on Saturday, October 14, the Sacramento Republic FC is partnering with SCOE to
recognize our 2024 Sacramento County Teachers of the Year (TOY) and the 2023
Sacramento County Classified School Employees of the Year (CSEY). The game will be
held at Heart Health Park on the grounds of Cal Expo. The tailgate celebration starts at
5:30 p.m. The TOY and CSEY honorees will be recognized before the Sacramento
Republic FC match against the Miami FC at 7:00 p.m.

On Monday, October 16, SCOE hosts a professional learning session lead by Julie
Montali and her Early Learning team titled “Creating Equitable Environments for Young
Boys of Color – Disrupting Disproportionate Outcomes.” This session will be facilitated
by West Ed partner and author, Tamarra Barrett-Osborne.

On October 18, we celebrate another El Centro graduation ceremony scheduled for
9:00 a.m.

B. Recognition of the November 2023 Employees of the Month - Xanthi Soriano

Stewart Parker, Program Analyst, Career Pipeline Development, was recognized and
honored as the classified employee of the month for November.

Aimee Marriott, Teacher, Foundations Academy, was recognized and honored as the
certificated employee of the month for November.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
10.03.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             4
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown
Not Present at Vote: Fong
Absent: Ahola

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
White/Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendent White announced that two students will be awarded diplomas,
including one candidate from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension, and one candidate
from North Area Senior Extension.

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown
Not Present at Vote: Fong
Absent: Ahola

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

A. No Grants

10. New Business - Other
A. Board Report - College & Career Readiness - Jacqueline White
Assistant Superintendent White introduced Jane Ross, Director II College and Career
Readiness. Together Ms. White and Ms. Ross presented the College and Career
Readiness Board Report.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Davis – no report.

Trustee Brown reported that he attended the St. Hope Public School Alumni Reunion
last Friday where Mayor Steinberg and Cassandra Jennings, Chief Executive Officer at
St. Hope, spoke. He also commented that he is glad that students will be learning to
write cursive again because the teaching of cursive has been mandated under
Assembly Bill 446.

10.03.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         5
Trustee Corona Sabeniano thanked President Lefkovitz for reading a Land
Acknowledgement before tonight’s meeting. She also stated that she attended the Oak
Park Literacy Event, which was well attended. The books SCOE provided were
amazing.

Trustee Keefer thanked President Lefkovitz for inviting him to the literacy events, and he
was able to attend the luncheon. He commented that the literacy focus should be on
today’s kindergarten, first, and second graders to lessen the literacy problems of future
high school students. If we aim for all students to be literate, it will likely solve many
problems. In his organization, second grade students were at 36%. Four years later, as
the result of dedicated action, they reached 80% and their CAASP scores have
increased.

Trustee Fong stated that he wanted to echo Trustee Keefer’s comment on literacy. He
commented that if students can read at grade level in third grade they will graduate
from high school. He supports districts using research-based and data-driven programs
that have proven results to educate students. Trustee Fong referenced an article he
read about why teachers leave the profession. The reasons have more to do with being
respected and valued and not the amount of work that they do.

B. Board President

President Lefkovitz reported that she attended the various literacy events, including the
movie, luncheon, and Oak Park Literacy event. She stated that the movie producer was
a teacher who shared a picture of himself with 30 of his grade school students, of which
only two could read, and it was emphasized throughout the movie how important it is to
engage families early in student learning. She recognized SCOE’s Tami Wilson and
Becky Sullivan who are coordinating these events and commended their efforts.
President Lefkovitz also expressed appreciation to the Early Learning team for hosting
an important training on October 16 about “Disproportionate Suspensions in Pre-K.”
She also reported that she spent time in the School of Education this morning talking
about the Teacher Pipeline and learning about Teacher Apprenticeships.

C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution

A. October/November Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. October 17, 2023 and November 14, 2023

14. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Prior to adjourning the meeting, Vice President Brown read "What I'm Going to Do,"
written by an El Centro student from 916 Ink’s “Behind the Brick Wall”.
10.03.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          6
Motion to adjourn meeting by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Ahola

Meeting adjourned at 7:42 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,



David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




10.03.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                          7
