Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.

Tuesday, September 20, 2022

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m. Other Board members present:
Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, and Trustee Joanne
Ahola.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Deputy
Superintendent Nancy Herota; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendent Nick Schweizer; Assistant Superintendent Brent Malicote; Executive
Directors Michael Kast and Jerry Jones; Director Shanine Coats; and Executive Assistant
Malissa Kekahu.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Brown lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Approval of Minutes

A. Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of July 12, 2022 by
Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola

B. Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of August 9, 2022 by
Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola



 09.20.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                       1
3. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to approve the adoption of the agenda as presented by Trustee Fong,
second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola

4. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

5. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

Sean Frame provided public comment regarding an email that he sent to the Board.

Kim Holm provided public comment regarding the passing of a SCOE colleague,
Raycheal Fernandes.

Tinsae Birhanu, Samantha Smith, Hannan Canada, and Angela Mathenge provided
public comments in support of AB 2774.

Zelia Gonzales provided a public comment to recommend that the Sacramento County
Office of Education adopt criteria in order to approve the State Seal of Civic Engagement
award across the States.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no requests from employee organizations.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

SPECIAL EDUCATION
Principal Lauren Roth, along with staff and students at Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High
School, were pleased to host Back to School Night on September 12. Special thanks to
Trustees Brown, Lefkovitz, and Corona Sabeniano who joined families and SCOE staff to
view programs, projects, and Palmiter’s renowned horticultural center and garden.
Guests also enjoyed a delicious BBQ dinner prepared by students from the Culinary Arts
program. Our Culinary Café, located on the Palmiter campus, will host a “by invitation
only” grand re-opening for the current school year at Noon on October 27, 2022. Board
members will receive an invitation in the mail the first week of October.


 09.20.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         2
PARA EDUCATOR JOB FAIR
Our Human Resource Department with support from SCOE principals—led by Executive
Director Michael Kast—and the Communications Office, held a recruitment fair focused
on recruiting para educators--that as you know we are short on—on September 10.
Applicants submitted applications, completed examinations, and participated in oral
examinations that were conducted by school principals and personnel staff. There were
many applicants throughout the day, with the last applicant leaving at 5:30 p.m. The
event generated an excellent pool of candidates who have been placed on an
employment eligibility list and are scheduled for final interviews.

COURT AND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
Our community-based organizations, such as 916 Ink and Square Root Academy, will
begin providing learning activities for our Court and Community programs in the next two
weeks. Artist Milton Bowens will visit with youth in our programs before beginning the arts
sessions and mural design project the first week of October. There are 39 students
enrolled in our Student Outreach Academic Recovery (SOAR) Academy at El Centro in
the youth detention facility. The program is designed to help students obtain college
credits. Court and Community staff are participating in Professional Learning twice a
month on Mondays. As part of our Educator Effectiveness and A-G grants, a team of
SCOE Coordinators and Curriculum Specialists is designing the Professional Learning
with a focus on engaging all learners for equitable outcomes. The first session, with an
emphasis on adult protective relationships, was presented by Mentor CA’s CEO Marcus
Strother.

ADULT RE-ENTRY
The location of the Placer County Re-entry Program graduation scheduled for September
29 has been changed to the Auburn Veterans Memorial Lodge at 100 East Street in
Auburn. The original location was the Gold Country Fairgrounds, which is no longer
available as FEMA has secured the location for evacuees of the Mosquito Ridge Fire.
The start time is still 5:00 p.m.

CONSTITUTION DAY
Last Thursday, the Kennedy Learning Center hosted a special event in honor of
Constitution Day, commemorated annually on September 17, the date on which the
founding fathers signed the document in 1787. Superintendent Gordon participated in a
live reading of the Constitution (along with Brent Malicote), and 100 others. Students from
four local high schools—Florin High, Grant Joint Union High, McClatchy High, and
Natomas Charter were invited to meet with members of the “federal court family” that
work in the federal court system, including prosecutors, defense lawyers, and marshals.
Students also visited a courtroom and met Chief U.S. District Judge Kimberly J. Mueller.

SCOE CAREER PIPELINE for EARLY EDUCATION and MENTAL HEALTH
For our School-based Mental Health and Wellness Path, our peer specialists and
graduate clinical interns are now settled onto school sites, working alongside our mental
health clinicians and the school teams. And these we hope will be our clinicians of the
future. Additionally, we have secured funding for the Family and Community Health


 09.20.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             3
Systems Navigator position to assist with connecting students and families to resources.
SCOE was awarded the Early Education Teacher Development Grant for $3.7M over
three years. This is part of Universal Prekindergarten funding, aimed to increase the
numbers of highly qualified preschool and transitional kindergarten teachers and to
increase specific competencies for preschool, TK, and kindergarten teachers for a whole
child approach to early education. SacE3 (acronym of our program)—with SCOE as lead
agency—will coordinate and administer the programs in four different partnership-based
pathways for a comprehensive pipeline and professional learning system. The goal is to
make sure that in 3-5-7 years that we are adequately staffed. Funding will also be
devoted to stipends, professional growth advising, professional learning opportunities, as
well as staff to coordinate and sustain the work.

COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Xanthi Soriano, SCOE’s new Executive Director of Communications, starts Monday,
September 26. Since 2015, Xanthi has served as the Director of Communications and
Public Information Officer at the Elk Grove Unified School District. With her experience in
education and the business world, her commitment to learning, and deep knowledge of
our region, Xanthi is the ideal person to lead Communications for SCOE. We are eager to
have her join us next week.

ADMINISTRATION
As a reminder, the Sacramento County School Boards Association (SCSBA) Dinner
Meeting is scheduled for October 12 in the Mather Room. The guest speaker will be
(Retired) Sacramento Police Chief Daniel Hahn. As background to our collective work on
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, Chief Hahn will speak on the history of Sacramento and
the surrounding areas and discuss race-based policies that have impacted our
communities over the years.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee
Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola

By approval of the consent agenda, the following items were approved:

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students – Jacqueline
White/Michael Kast



 09.20.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          4
Michael Kast, Executive Director, announced that the following 11 students will be
awarded diplomas: 2 candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School; 8 candidates
from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School; and 1 candidate from North Area Senior Extension.

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Motion to approve by Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola

A. Innovations in Citizenship Education Grant - Jerry Jones

B. California Statewide Physical Fitness Test Grant - Dr. Nancy Herota

C. Project Cal-HOPE Student Support 3.0 Grant - Brent Malicote

10. New Business – Other

A. Board Report - Youth Voice - Jacqueline White/Brent Malicote

Assistant Superintendent Brent Malicote presented the Youth Voice Board report with
Curriculum Specialist Charley Gilmore.

President Keefer asked for public comments.

The following individuals provided public comments via Zoom:

Michael Minnick, Dr. Hueling Lee, and Ria Srivastava provided public comments in
support of a student board member.

The following individuals provided public comments in-person:



 09.20.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                       5
Charles Bolton from Improve Your Tomorrow (IYT), Sydney Lewis from IYT, Tylier Smith,
and Mulivaya Ivy provided public comments in support of Youth Voice.

The Board asked questions and provided comments regarding the report.


B. Board Report - Special Education - Michael Kast

Executive Director Kast presented the report on Special Education. He was joined by
Principals Lauren Roth, Guy Holman, Jillian Friend, and Randy Olson.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola - no report.

Trustee Brown discussed the CCBE Conference in Monterey and stated that he learned
a lot about mental health. He commented that he is the co-President of the Kiwanis and
that they hosted a farm-to-fork dinner last Saturday. The purpose of the event is to
provide scholarships for students, including the Turn Around Scholarship for those
students in continuation schools. Nearly 200 people attended. Four $1000 scholarships
will be awarded.

Trustee Lefkovitz discussed the CCBE Conference in Monterey. She specifically
mentioned a session about what San Diego is doing with their Court & Community
Schools around Design Thinking. She brought a copy of the Parent Guidebook from the
Black Parallel School Board for Superintendent Gordon. Trustee Lefkovitz reported that
she and Trustee Brown met the BSU students when they went to the State Capitol. They
were advocating for AB 2774 and she invited them to come speak to the Board.

Trustee Fong sought to ask questions to one of the public commenters and President
Keefer responded that the Board does not engage with public comments on these
matters. Mr. Fong also commented about student debt relief. He would like SCOE to
inform students about debt relief, and perhaps have staff work with them through the
process. Superintendent Gordon stated that we would check on this.

Trustee Davis commented that she is certified to take fingerprints and does so at her mail
shop. This gives her many opportunities to meet local teachers and school staff,
particularly from River Delta, Galt, and Twin Rivers. She stated how excited she is to
greet them and thank them. She also noted how much she appreciates getting to
personally thank the staff from Fortune Charter School when they come in her shop.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano discussed the CCBE Conference in Monterey, including that
it was her first time at the conference and that she learned a lot. She also commented
that she enjoyed Back to School Night at Palmiter. She also stated that she supports the
Seal of Civic Engagement.


 09.20.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            6
B. Board President

President Keefer thanked staff for attending and presenting, as well as students who
provided public comment. He also informed the group that the Rotary Club of
Sacramento is hosting their ride on October 1. There will be over 1,000 riders and the
proceeds will support the Crisis Nurseries. Last year over $100,000 was raised.

C. Committees

There were no committee reports.

12. Items for Distribution

A. September/October Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. October 11, 2022 and October 25, 2022

14. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to adjourn meeting by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola

Meeting adjourned at 8:56 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,


Date approved:




 09.20.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          7
