                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                         10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700

    DAN HAVERTY
   Interim Fire Chief


                                  BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                                  Thursday, June 8, 2023 - 6:00 PM
                                                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                                     10545 Armstrong Avenue
D'Elman Clark                                       Board Room - Second Floor
Board President                                          Mather, California
Division 6
                                                                    &
Grant Goold                                               Remotely Via Zoom
Board Vice President
Division 2                                              Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171
                                                       Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Ted Wood
Board Secretary
                                                         Passcode: 838771796 #
Division 4              https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZV
Cinthia Saylors
                                                   QVh4d1VWZz09
Board Member
Division 1              The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Robert Webber
                            and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.
Board Member
Division 3
                        The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Jennifer Sheetz         the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
Board Member
Division 5              appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
                        Application, please click on the link above.
Brian Rice
Board Member
Division 7              Members of the p11blic seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
                        reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Gay Jones
Board Member
                        reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
Division 8              advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
                        accommodations:
John Costa
Board Member
Division 9                                                      Marni Rittburg
                                                                  Board Clerk
                                                                (916) 859-4305
                                                       rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                           Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties




                                                                                                                                  P1
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                          THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2023



►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District will be cablecast on Metro Cable 14, the
local government affairs channel on Comcast, Consolidated Communications and AT&T U-Verse
cable systems. This meeting is also webcast at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov. Today's meeting replays
on Monday, June 12, 2023 and Thursday, June 15, 2023 at 12:00 p.m. on Channel 14. This meeting
can also be viewed at youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN DISTRICT
JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and encourages public
interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public members wishing to address the
Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding officer and identify themselves for the record.
The presiding officer may, in the interest of time and good order, limit the number of public member
presentations. Speakers' comments will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members of the Public
requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record ,must be present or have a
representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of issues to
committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval, declaration of surplus
equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board
member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                    Page No.
1.      Action Summary Minutes                                                                                          6
        Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Special Board
        Meeting of May 13, 2023.

2.      Extension of Wittman Enterprises, LLC CRRD Regional Fire/EMS                                                   16
        Inspection Billing Services Agreement
        Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief to enter into a one-year contract
        extension with Wittman Enterprises, LLC.

3.      Medical Aid and Ambulance Transport User Fee Annual Adjustment                                                 35
        for FY2023/24
        Recommendation: Adopt the attached Resolution amending the Ambulance
        Transport Fee Schedule.

4.      Disclosure of Material Expenditure - Insurance Brokerage Services -                                            40
        USI Insurance Services
        Recommendation: Authorize the payment of $50,000 to USI Insurance Services for
        insurance brokerage services.
                                                                                                                             P2
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2023



5.   Disclosure of Material Expenditure -Aviation Liability Insurance -           41
     Insurance Services - Westchester Fire Insurance Company
     Recommendation: Authorize the payment of $123,533 Westchester Fire Insurance
     Company for the purchase of Aviation Liability Insurance.

6.   FY 2021 Fire Prevention and Safety Grant - Award Acceptance                                                   43
     (Erin Castleberry, Administrative Analyst)
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution accepting the FY 2021 Fire Prevention and
     Safety Grant.

PUBLIC HEARINGS:

1.   Amending Medical Aid and Ambulance Transport User Fee Ordinance                 45
     (CFO Dave O'Toole and EMS Assistant Chief Rudnicki)
     Recommendation: Conduct a Public Hearing to consider amending Ordinance 2017-01
     updating the Fee Schedule Ordinance for Medical Aid and Ambulance Transport User
     Fees for the District. Upon conclusion of the Public   Hearing,   approve    staff's
     recommendations and adopt first reading of the Ordinance. Second reading scheduled
     for meeting of June 22, 2023.

ACTION ITEMS:

1.   Fiscal Year 2023/2024 Capital Improvement Program Plan
     •'IEil Separate Attachment
     (Erin Castleberry, Administrative Analyst)
     Recommendation: Receive Presentation and Adopt the Resolution adopting the
     Capital Improvement Program Plan Fiscal Year 2023/2024 - 2027/2028

2.   Fiscal Year 2023/24 Preliminary Budget (CFO Dave O'Toole)
     ••t:m Separate Attachment
     A. Resolution - 2023/24 Preliminary Budget for the
        General Operating Fund 212A
     B. Resolution - 2023/24 Preliminary Budget for the
        Capital Facilities Fund 212D
     c. Resolution - 2023/24 Preliminary Budget for the
        Grants Fund 212G                 .
     D. Resolution - 2023/24 Preliminary Budget for the
        Development Impact Fees Fund 2121
     E. Resolution - 2023/24 Preliminary Budget for the
        Leased Properties Fund 212L
     F. Resolution - 2023/24 Preliminary Budget for the
        IGT Fund 212M
     Recommendation: Receive Presentation/Adopt ~y 2023/24 Budget Resolutions.

3.   Disclosure of Material Expenditure - Excess Workers' Compensation                                           52
     Insurance - Safety National Casualty Corp.
     (DC Bailey)


                                                                                                                          P3
                      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                      10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700 .


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                            THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2023


        Recommendation: Authorize the payment of $477,047 to Safety National Casualty
        Corporation for Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance.

4.      Consideration and Board Direction on Developing a Lift Assist Fee                                               **
        (Interim Fire Chief Haverty)
        Recommendation: Discuss and provide direction to staff.

REPORTS

1.      PRESIDENT'S REPORT-(President Clark)

2.      FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT-(lnterim Fire Chief Haverty)
              OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
              ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Bailey)
              SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

3.      SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice President)

4.       COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
        All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
        10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.
         A.       Executive Committee - (President Clark)
                  Next Meeting: TBD

         8.       Communications Center JPA - (DC Wagaman)
                  Next Meeting: June 13, 2023 at 9:00 AM

         C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
                  Next Meeting: July 27, 2023 at 5:30 PM

         D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
                  Report Out: June 8, 2023
                  Next Meeting: TBD

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION

1.       PERSONNEL MATTERS- PUBLIC EMPLOYEE EMPLOYMENT
         Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957
         Fire Chief Selection Process

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, 10545
Armstrong Avenue, Mathe,; CA
                                                                                                                                 P4
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                           THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2023



    •   Regular Board Meeting - June 22, 2023 at 6:00 PM
    •   Special Board Meeting - June 24, 2023 at 8:00 AM
    •   Special Board Meeting - June 25, 2023 at 1:00 PM

The following action and presentation items are scheduled for the next board meeting agenda.
Board members are requested to identify additional action or presentation items they desire to
be scheduled on the agenda.


ANTICIPATED AGENDA ITEMS:                    Second Reading & Adoption of Ordinance Amending
                                             Medical Aid and Ambulance Transport User Fees


Posted on June 5, 2023



Marni Rittburg,cierkofthoard
** No written report
••mil Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.




                                                                                                                              P5
                   ·Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
 l         I
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, CA 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3702

lfiu,~
                         ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - SPECIAL MEETING

                                    BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                          SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                    Wednesday, May 13, 2023
                                 Held at the following locations:
                             10545 Armstrong Avenue- Board Room
                                        Mather, California
                                                 &
                                       Remotely Via Zoom


     CALL TO ORDER

     The meeting was called to order at 9:00 am by President Clark. Board members present:
     Clark, Costa, Goold, Jones, Saylors, Sheetz, Webber, and Wood. Board members absent:
     Rice. Staff present: Interim Fire Chief Haverty and Interim Board Clerk Martucci.

     PLEdGE TO FLAG

     PUBLIC COMMENT: None

     PRESENTATION ITEM:

     1.   ANNUAL STRATEGIC PLAN UPDATE

     Interim Fire Chief Haverty welcomed everyone to the meeting. He described today as a day of
     learning, deliberation, and reflection on the direction of the organization. The Board Strategic
     Plan was last considered in 2020 and is a guidance and policy document to the entire
     organization. Changes since then include Covid's impact on the workforce, the department, and
     the nation at large. There were also changes in residential and commercial property
     development, labor cost changes, inflationary pressures, continued service life concerns about
     our infrastructure, daily staffing impacts, widespread decreasing av9ilability of qualified
     applicants in all sections of the organization for jobs, and changes in how federal drawdown
     funds for ambulance revenue are managed at the state level. All of these have an influence on
     how we as a department respond to better accomplish our mission as well as how we satisfy the
     needs of our total membership.

     In today's session, we will be covering our service delivery plan, challenges, and opportunities
     for building up the workforce, how we plan for and manage the help needed for capital
     improvement and infrastructure of the department to better serve the members as well as the
     public. We will also look at the big picture of financial management, and lastly COO Jeff Frye
     will help identify areas of improvement for external engagement.

     Chief Haverty emphasized that our purpose is to focus on the Board's overview of the Metro
     Fire Strategic Plan, all from a policy perspective. This perspective will help the Board give us
     policy direction the "what" and enables us to give you the "how" that work will be accomplished.
     He thanked the Board for being here today and for the planning being done to serve our
     citizenry and those who come to our region.


                                                                                                             P6
COO Frye asked the Board to stay focused on strategic objectives at the highest level to set the
path for moving forward. He covered the format and expectations of today's meeting and that
he refers to the five pieces of the Board's strategic plan as elements. Staff will go into each
element and the work done the last three years, review the checklist and asked President Clark
to facilitate the Q&A with the Board. COO Frye explained the framework of the process and
asked the Board to think about the timeline of this annual process.

COO Frye provided an overview of the process, starting with understanding service delivery.
The second phase focuses on the member needs and capital assets. Then it next, ties into a
planning framework for the budget. He asked for a common understanding of the planning
cycle and how the elements get through to, finally, the budget itself. The fifth element is
external engagement, how all these things require us to look outside of Metro Fire to address
things facing the organization.

Service Delivery

COO Fry stated all the data collected is related to Standard of Cover (SOC), pieces the Board
identified in the strategic planning process, outcomes, initiatives, and projects. The Board noted
accreditation as a future process with additional resources and funds being needed. He has
reviewed other SOCs and best practices and wants to make sure we tell the Metro Fire story
and ensure the document continues to be updated.

COO Frye next covered data . integration. They created a super-user's group and found
workarounds for CAD as well identified programs needing to be supported. The data used for
reporting and analytics comes from CAD Data, the staffing program, EMS data, suppression
data, incident command, and incident investigation software.

Community Risk Assessment

AC Law shared that in 2020, the district received a grant to complete a Community Risk
Assessment (CAR). A CAR is a comprehensive evaluation to identify the risks in your
community and to look at how likely they are to occur, including risk maintenance. The process
needs to be updated and reviewed annually as trends and problems in your community change.
We've seen significant changes that have occurred locally since 2020 and solutions are going to
require a coordinated effort amongst multiple agencies. AC Law indicated the next steps are
dedicating time to familiarize newer staff with the process, prioritize risk identified, develop
problem statements and goals, and tailor programs to reach a broader range of the community.
Also, one of the big needs is training supervisors, to support succession planning to work on
data. A dedicated resource is needed. AC Law said in regard to the data, there is a need for
NFIRS training for all members. The system drives operations information and how to
adequately code calls, so there's less data scrubbing needed later.

Dispatch Coordination

DC Wagaman provided an overview of the dispatch coordination and details as to how the two
agency's strategic plans tie together. They've addressed day to day operations by providing an
AC level executive officer, fiscal accountability and building a process for the strategic plan, so
we're all moving in the same direction. They've also addressed the hiring process, automated
QA processes, and improved the distribution workload by updating software. Three years ago,
they created a disaster recovery center. Future steps include a move up matrix, a new CAD
system, ACE accreditation, a five-year strategic plan, and when ready, onboarding of dispatch
services for new agencies.
May 13, 2023 Special Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                      Page 2 of 10

                                                                                                      P7
Standard of Cover

COO Frye led off by saying we have a lot of information to start making better decisions. Our
data integration, Comm Center dispatch process, CRA and community risk reduction plan are
all major components of the Standard of Cover, for accreditation purposes. There are several
sections in the Standard of Cover including guidance on how to structure things. In the risk
assessment, we started with a broad overview to measure fire. Population density is the number
one driver of risk and call volume. The Board adopted three response standards: rural,
suburban, and urban based on population density. There is not a defined dense urban
response standard, but one is needed today.

They started with a grand overview of all the risks in the District and narrowed it down to the risk
profile page by first due. COO Frye provided the Board with a population density census for
Fire Station 24 as an example. Ultimately, this creates the standard response determination,
based on risk profile. Over the last nine months, he has spent a lot of time working with
operations to determine risk typing and critical tasking. This will be a big part of trying to figure
out the next version of service delivery for Metro Fire. All the census block data has been put
into five categories. As we know how to predict population trends will occur based on
development, we can start to anticipate what change in service must be made in the short and
long term. We can then make a recommendation for service delivery standards. After setting
the standard, we then move to response times to identify any gaps in response coverage and if
the solution a new fire station or apparatus. Data is measured based on the Evolution of
Reliability, Time on Task and by the Effective Response Force.

Analysis of Future Consolidation

Chief Haverty discussed the three ways in which Metro Fire can expand its territory were by
consolidations, mergers, and annexations. He asked for direction from the Board as to what the
policy direction would be in the future and what parameters would be set for staff to engage, or
if you want them to engage. Chief Haverty explained that policy decisions should be based on
growth, population projections around the county and region, the present and planned capacity
of public facilities and adequacy of public services. He asked the Board to have this discussion
at some point in the near future. He discussed other services and programs, such as the ARFF
and Hazmat agreements.

Chief Law provided an overview of the Community Risk Reduction Division (CRRD) and how it
is responsible for protecting the public through coordinated efforts in fire prevention through
code enforcement, fire protection engineering, fire and life safety education and fire
investigation. Metro Fire has the legal authority and respon·sibility to enforce those standards
that relate to fire and life safety contained in the health and safety code. The District can charge
fees and is currently working on an updated fee study to recover the costs of providing services
to the community. For the fee study they started with data collection, looked at the services
they provide, the cost of doing those services and how much time they spend providing these
services. CRRD will bring to the Board for discussion and adoption of the new fee model.
CRRD will work with the Finance Division to ensure CPl's are also updated annually.

Service Delivery

DC Mitchell discussed the data driven objective approach to Service Delivery. It will be an
incremental approach, in a measured fashion, balanced against fiscal accountability, policy and
value to the community. He provided their short and long term strategies. The data will look at
what kind of call types we are responding to based on the risk category, as well as population
May 13, 2023 Special Board Meeting Actio~ Summary Minutes                       Page 3 of 10


                                                                                                        PB
density, to identify which kind of Effective Response Force (ERF) is needed for a particular
emergency.

COO Frye discussed the checklist what is still outstanding. Staff are continuing to build and
refine the data infrastructure. He expects to bring an updated policy to the Board regarding
those new standard response, goals and objectives in the next couple of months. Some of the
outputs include what additional staff is needed to deliver these services and what are the
equipment and facilities needed, not just the one-year annualized budget process, but also
looking five to ten years into the future.

Q&A

Director Jones commented that a data driven will give answers to questions. Using data to
drive decisions is the key overall. We need data, scrubbed for accurate, actionable information,
is what she thinks our goal should be.

Director Goold questioned if we were tracking the percentage of unfunded mandates. In CRRD,
we get this tremendous amount of workload through the state and these unfunded mandates.
He thinks the citizens need to know anytime we have a state mandate that is unfunded, it draws
down resources that could be spent in other ways. Politically, we need to look at opportunities
to change that ratio and it needs to come with funding. COO Frye confirmed state mandated
costs are tracked. Director Goold also asked how time on task is being defined. How much is
internal control versus external control? He also asked how we are defining Effective Response
Force (ERF). COO Frye confirmed there are almost 30 ERF definitions. Time on Task is
measured dispatch to clear, including wall time. COO Frye stated the next job is to build out a
coding solution in the next six months to review wall time.

Director Jones commented regarding Chief Haverty's parameters for annexation/consolidation.
The checklist is very similar to LAFCO's municipal service review and is. a good evaluation
point. She looks forward to working with the Chief on this.

Director Saylors asked about NFIRS reporting and the need for more training on data entry
piece. DC Mitchell and AC Law said there will be a new reporting system in 2025 which will
require a large amount of work and inte'rnal staff resources to complete the transition to the new
National Emergency Management Incident Reporting System (NEMIRS).

Break 10:30 am - 10:35 am

Members

COO Frye spoke on the staffing plan process to line out a strategic plan, to start to fix staffing
issues over time. There are short term and long term that needs for a strategic staffing plan.
Staff would like to bring this to the Board in November.

Hiring Plan

COO Frye shared the strategic drivers, supply analysis, demand analysis, gap analysis, solution
formulation, monitoring, and evaluation. Out of the Standard of Cover going to look at response
time set by Board policy, where we are deficient, and what are the people needed to close that
gap. Determining the strategic direction for your work force plan involves understanding team
mission, goals, future objectives and how the workforce needs to be aligned to achieve them.
He discussed long term and short-term strategies in the plan to fix personnel staffing issues. He.
May 13, 2023 Special Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                     Page 4 of 10

                                                                                                     pg
                                                                            '
discussed the emerging markets, economic and political, such as unfunded mandates and
cybersecurity. Communities are being designed to the metropolitan standard and we need to
understand how to rapidly increase staff to get to the level of service delivery. The next step is
to document this and further describe the process. As we think about the workforce we need,
considering what do we have today, and evaluate what do we need going forward. We need
the right number of people with the right skills. Questions staff are considering : How well the
current workforce aligns with the support service delivery strategies? How many members are
needed at the organizational level? What are attrition rates? How does turnover affect
services? What is the cost to replace talent? Operation headcount which captures a lot of this
data, by shift, by specialties, it allows to track ideas and put into budgetary process. Needs to
be expanded beyond operations to administrative. Staff set a November deadline to incorporate
in next year's planning process. The Board has asked for a one-year projection based on the
budget, in addition to a five-year forecast based on forecast. Common types of workforce gaps
are skills and staffing levels. The annual HR process is well defined. Two decision points going
forward into financial management process, maintain the existing services level with members
of today and members needed to support growth. We will focus on solution formulation, both
short and long-term. They've conducted a supply and demand process, determined critical
gaps, now ready to figure out what the workforce intervention is to close the gap that will allow
them to meet the organizational needs. Intervention strategies include recruitment and retention
 plans, administrative proficiency, hiring controls, and professional development.

Health and Well Being

Director Wood asked if mental health support (peer support) is available to non-suppression
staff. DC Bailey and BC Cole confirmed it is available to all members. He asked about
recruitment from the military and how it seems like an excellent pool of people with skill sets.
BC Cole confirmed FF White has relationships with military recruiters and attends a lot of
conferences and is very active there. Director Wood requested FF White do a presentation at
an upcoming meeting.

Director Goold asked about recruitment and staff gap analysis, include the growing optics of
inclusivity and diversity, how it needs to reflect our community. He also mentioned looking at Al
and the opportunities in the services we provide. We also need to consider paid internships.

Director Jones is very interested in what the metrics are for what makes a successful are
recruitment and retention. Have we seen an increase in recruitment? It's the kind of metric this
Board needs to have so they can evaluate that program. She also thanked everyone for this
discussion on staff allocations.

Director Saylors spoke on diversity and recognized the CJAC program as having a good
candidate pool.

Q&A

Director Jones commented on the need to separate APOT from Time on Task.                COO Frye
confirmed it is a top priority to complete.

Director Goold stated people need to want to be a paramedic and choose this career ladder.

Director Wood shared the biggest complaint he hears from ALS paramedics, getting pulled off
seat on engine to back fill on a medic.

May 13, 2023 Special Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                       Page 5 of 10


                                                                                                     P10
Director Saylors said we are all here today to think of unique and open-minded ideas to get this
district into future. Metro Fire is about adaptability, and she wants to see an internship program
for EMTs. The more we can offer employees the more they will stay with us.

Lunch Break 11 :35 am -11 :55 am

Capital Assets

COO Frye is looking at one year and five years at what new service delivery model in a dense
urban area looks like. All of this is captured in CIP plan (first brought to the Board in 2022) and
will be part of the preliminary budget plan. Improvements include working with the purchasing
manager to refine the apparatus replacement schedule to better reflect and manage the fleet,
including predictors of mileage to determine a better replacement schedule. Staff has put
together a financial planning process to bring more detailed information to the Board. -

COO Frye reported the facility condition assessments were done in 2018 looking at just existing
stations to keep up with maintenance. For the Fleet Division, due to supply chain issues with
vehicles, we need to think today about what we need a year and a half from now. What is the
cost to maintain and replace existing? What projects submitted are to provide new services
due to expansion?

COO Frye presented the five pieces of information used to present the Board the CIP. Facility
condition assessments, the apparatus replacement schedule, the capital asset list (equipment
piece), the station master plan and growth plan (stations, apparatus, and equipment needed).
DC Wagaman stated the outstanding question is how to get all of the funding needed to support
the plan.

' Q&A

Director Goold said what we should consider when talking about federal and state funding
mechanisms is the group growing involved in finding funding. He asked why aren't we tripling
the staff in this area? He recommends we look beyond the general fund and start-being way
more aggressive with securing this funding from federal, state, and other local jurisdictions. We
will see direct benefits from federal and state funding. He referred to the Zinfandel site as an
example.

Financial Management

COO Frye discussed new revenues and how the Board wants to define new revenues. They
have studied Natomas, Dry Creek, Sutter, and South Placer from a revenue perspective. They.
need to review the financial feasibility and what it takes to a bring level of service where it needs
to be for Metro Fire. Automatic aid and mutual agreement (recovery agreement) are additional
options.

Six sources of funding set by statute and where opportunities are within existing sources.

    •   Property Taxes The best way to manage areas of growth is a supplemental tax. This
        tells us how much growth and where we need to add additional service.
    •   Impact fees Specific to cover capital costs of the new service. Went through the
        process to collect impact fees - land use authorities can collect on our behalf and must
        pass it at their boards.

May 13, 2023 Special Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                       Page 6 of 10


                                                                                                        P11
   •   Community Facility Districts - Also called Mello Roos. A special type of tax district is
       formed when property owners are interested in getting a development agreement
       approved by the land use authority. Really intended for infrastructure needs. Property
       owners can negotiate a CFO which can be used for operational shortfalls related to fire
       and police. Available for those with land use authority - cities/counties. There is a very
       narrow window to do a CFO.
   •   Fees and Charges EMS and CRRD Fees - set by nexus study.
   •   Grants - Grants and discretionary spending appropriations (earmarks). Economic
       development opportunities, how do we form partnerships, how do we write agreements,
       MOU's, and JPAs to give revenue to operate.
   •   Subvention - This is a form of a grant, i.e. IGT PPGEMT . It is not brand new revenue.
       Subventions only marginally help. We still under-collect (24-40 cents on the dollar) and
       need to start to fix and correct this as an external engagement strategy.

COO Frye spoke on current revenue maintenance needed to do contract for and conduct fee
studies. They can renegotiate lease properties impact fees 2021, HazMat contracts, and ARFF
agreements to make sure we are recovering as much costs as possible. CRRD Fees are being
updated and implemented this year. EMS fees study plan to be updated before end of fiscal
year.

Future Projections

CFO O'Toole provided the Board updates ·on the current revenue risk analysis, future budget
projections and investment options. The three risks of revenue maintenance risks are economic
property tax (75% of revenues), subventions (IGT, PP-GEMT), and services fees (EMS medic
fees). He also provided the Board a snapshot of future budget projections. CFO O'Toole
demonstrated to the Board that a one percent reserve is about 3 million dollars and what the
change would be if used towards long-term debt, · such as Cal PERS Safety Plan, Workers'
Compensation, and CIP.

Review Strategic Planning Process Flow

COO Frye asked the Board to think about a common language to better communicate more
effectively and efficiently. The budget process is sound and our ability to make multiyear
projections is good. We need an intermediate step to agree on key budget elements and what
we are comparing to. i.e. compare preliminary to preliminary.          He recommends three
components: expense modeling, revenue modeling, and risk contingency. All three lead up to
the annual budget (Preliminary, Final and Midyear). This will improve communications and help
us to make better decisions faster and efficiently.

Q&A

Director Costa asked when will this process be ready? COO Frye, FC and DCs are making
some decisions now and would like to start speaking this language in November. He would like
to have this process fully up and running by next fiscal year.

Director Goold asked if true impact fees are development fees that are well accepted in
community, in addition to property tax. COO Frye clarified it is a one-time fee. Director Goold
asked why so limited to additional buildings. Based on the policies of the County, we're seeing
a societal impacts and we are expected to provide services for policy decisions made by the
County, without funds. Impact fees are the responsibility of the County department.
May 13, 2023 Special Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                    Page 7 of 10


                                                                                                    P12
Director Goold discussed the medic fees and the payer mix. Ambulance transport fees are
measured total bill versus collected. We need to look at the County for cost recovery. Bold
conversations need to happen to open up the revenues needed to support these services.

Director Wood commented on the under recovering of services, only recovering 20-30%. The
Board needs to decide to increase recovery beyond 20-30%.

Director Saylors asked to have the difference between someone who is fully insured explained
as opposed to not fully insured.

BC Cole explained fully privately insured, partially insured and uninsured (Fee-for-Service) are
the CMS cat~gories. As soon as treatment is provided, but before being discharged they
become partially insured (between Medicare/Medical).

Director Jones said they are sharing, in the 2x2 meeting with the County, Fire and EMS call
data for unhoused.

 Director Goold noted future budget projections includes "reducing" constant staffing. Can it be
•changed from "reducing" to "stabilizing" constant staffing?

COO Frye confirmed this strategic planning and process framework will be used going forwa·rd.

Break 1:07pm - 1:15pm

COO Frye covered the last element of External Engagement. Captain Wilbourn has improved
the visibility of Metro Fire as PIO. He's developed communication strategies and improved
outreach including with the public schools. PIO Wilbourn reported they received a fifty-
thousand-dollar grant and put together several safety videos on the website, providing access to
our consistent safety messaging. The communication plan focuses on reputational and
operational crisis plans for fluid and consistent messaging for both external and internal
members.

There are three additional components to figure out as long-term issues. COO Frye described
each of the following: Economic Development Strategy, Legislative Priorities and Advocacy
Plan, and Stakeholder Engagement Plan.

Director Wood thanked Captain Wilbourn and Brenda Briggs for going out to schools and
putting out quality videos. On the legislative side, he has not seen the Board take any action on
any legislation in his last ten years on the Board. COO Frye noted this needs to be included at
a strategic level to provide staff direction. They do ask the Fire Chief to sign letters and do
prioritize to determine where they are going to commit resources to. COO Frye asked the Board
where the next place they want staff to focus. Director Wood also felt we need a group to follow
this on the legislative side. The District has been working with CSDA.

 Director Saylors stated there is a combined team made up of FDAC and Cal Chiefs that do have
 legislative watch groups. Jeff is part of this group, and every week receives a report from the
 group. Director Saylors feels we are moving in a positive direction.

Director Costa said there's a local piece missing. COO Frye stated it would be nice to have a
strategic objective as a policy to follow. Director Costa stated overall communication is key and
focus is needed and with the expertise on the board. It does require volunteer time. He would
like to help work on it, but not sure on the mechanism.
 May 13, 2023 Special Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                   Page 8 of 10


                                                                                                    P13
Director Jones would like to help as well. A key is that we would need more staff and legislative
committees. We need to entertain a larger staff and part can be volunteered with directors, but
part needs to be staffed.

FY 23/24 Planning Direction

CDO Frye wrapped up the day going overall objectives and feels there is a much better process
to move forward and to get ahead of these things. He believes providing periodic check-ins on
each of the elements will create an improved annual process. Asking for the Board's strategic
direction is imperative for the next fiscal year. Standard of Cover is about 80% built, CIP is
complete, Staffing Plan needs work, and external engagement is about 50% built. Now that
we've built these processes we have responsibility for external engagement, financial
management, in service delivery and capital assets.

Director Goold thinks we need to determine what additional investments need to be made and
leaves it up to the experts to confirm. He also thinks this organization is in such good hands,
impressed by men and women in this room today. He has full faith and confidence in this
group.

Director Jones stated given the staffing we have now, some things are a certain percentage
done. She asked what is the easiest lift with staff have now and how can we incrementally add?
What increases can we do to get the biggest impact, including FDAC, League of Cities, CSAC,
examples of where we can uplift. Including volunteerism on the Board of Directors.

Director Clark is open to a special meeting to discuss issues they do not have time to discuss at
regular meetings.

Director Saylors agrees with Director Goold's comments and direction. She would also like to
say, if CDO Frye is going to a meeting, can the Board be made aware of that so that they may
join? If they are available, they can also go and watch the proceedings. She attends other
board meetings, LAFCO, Comm Center and attends as much as she can.

Director Wood hopes the governing body will issue letters of support and against issues.
Somehow this needs to get up to the Board. Suggests CDO Frye and AA Castleberry provide a
Board report. This Board represents nearly a million people in this community.

Director Costa would like to help and noted the needed participation from the Board. There are
more opportunities. How do you keep everyone informed of these decisions?

Director Wood asked BC Cole to keep them informed and the Board will provide a letter of
support, if needed.

Director Clark appreciates the management style of Chief Haverty.

Director Jones stated there are often stuff comes up in less than two weeks and we need some
sort of process for external engagement and the need for a quick legislative response.

Director Wood said the Board can authorize this by resolution.

Wrap-up



May 13, 2023 Special Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                     Page 9 of 10


                                                                                                    P14
Chief Haverty asked the Board to look at the existing strategic plan and what you received
today. In each category, please review the outputs and confirm that's what you want as an
output. If it is the correct output, staff will fold them into the strategic·plan as action items for
you. If there are additional ones, let staff know so they may be considered as well.

Then he discussed the triaging of those items of things that must be done. Allow us to bring to
an action plan, spread out by priority, from urgent and to needs to be fulfilled. He asked to bring
to the Board over the course of next fiscal year so the board can bite off on them at a
consumable manner. The Board's input is incredibly important, telling us the "what" to do so
they can identify "how" to do it.

Chief Haverty thanked the Board for their time today on Saturday and being involved as they
were. It's heartening and hopeful at wanting to help. Thanked COO Frye and his team. Also
thanked Jill Guzman for handling logistics.

ADJOURNMENT - The meeting adjourned at 2:00 pm.




D'Elman Clark, President                                      Ted Wood, Secretary




Sherri Martucci, Interim Clerk of the Board




May 13, 2023 Special Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                      Page10of10

                                                                                                        P15
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite #200, Mather, CA 95655 · (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700




TODD HARMS
  Fire Chief


  DATE:           June 08, 2023

  TO:             Board of Directors

  SUBJECT:        Extension of Professional Services Agreement - Community Risk Reduction
                  Division (CRRD) Inspection Billing Services


                                            BACKGROUND
  California cities, counties, and special districts may impose user and regulatory fees for services
  and activities they provide through provisions set forth in the State Constitution, Article XIII C § 1.
  Pursuant to Health & Safety Code Sections 13146.2(b), 13217(b), 13862, 13869, 13871 , 13874,
  17951 and California Government Code Section 6103.7, the District is authorized to adopt user
  and regulatory fees to defray and/or recover the cost of providing specified services directly to an
  individual or business.

  The District performs cost recovery for services provided by the Community Risk Reduction
  Division including operational permits, plan review, new construction inspections, general fire and
  life safety inspections, and other miscellaneous services as outlined in O(dinance No. 2016-061
  which was adopted by the Board of Directors effective July 01 , 2016. On average, CRRD
  generates 5,000-7,500 billable items per calendar year, depending on current staffing levels.


                                           DISCUSSION
  Staff issued Request for Proposal (RFP) 20-11 Community Risk Reduction Division (CRRD)
  Inspection Billing Services on October 14, 2020 to solicit a qualified company to work with Metro
  Fire's Community Risk Reduction Division (CRRD) on the invoicing, recording, monitoring, and
  managing of inspection, false alarm, and weed abatement cost recovery. The contract was
  awarded to Wittman Enterprises, LLC authorizing a 1 year contract with two (2) optional 12-month
  extensions. The District approved the first contract extension on June 08, 2022, and CRRD
  wishes to execute the second contract extension.


                                          FISCAL IMPACT
  The contract term includes a fee of 7% of net collected dollars, which is projected to be $55,000.00
  for FY 23-24. Funds for this expense have been allocated in the FY 23-24 budget.


                                      RECOMMENDATION
  Staff recommends that the Board approve the final contract extension for CRRD Inspection Billing
  Services with Wittman Enterprises, LLC .


  Submitted by:

  ~OJ)~           o('o»J
 Barbie Law
 Assistant Chief - Fire Marshal                             Deputy Chief - Support Services


                                 Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                               P16
                              Extension of Professional Services Agreement

    For Community Risk Reduction Division (CRRD) Inspection Billing Services, RFP 20~11

             Between the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and Wittman Enterprises



This Extension of Professional Services Agreement ("Extension") for CRRD Inspection Billing
Services by and between the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("DISTRICT") and Wittman
Enterprises, LLC ("CONTRACTOR") is made and entered into effective June 8th , 2023 by and
between the DISTRICT and the CONTRACTOR (collectively, the "Parties").
                                          '                                   \

                                                 RECITALS

WHEREAS, the Parties have entered into that certain Professional Services Agreement dated
June 8th , 2021, by which the DISTRICT retained the CONTRACTOR for CRRD Inspection Billing
Services;

WHEREAS, the Parties have agreed to renew this Agreement for the second one (1) year extension
as described in the original Agreement (Exhibit A);

WHEREAS, this Extension.is necessary to memorialize the extension of the Agreement;

NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties hereto agree as follows;

Section 1.       The Parties hereby agree to extend this Agreement for one (1) year, effective June 8th ,
                 2023. CONTRACTOR will° provide the billing, collections, financial reporting, and
                 accounts receivable management as described in the Agreement for the total amount
                 ·of seven percent (7%) of the net sums collected.

Section 2.       All provisions of the Agreement dated June 8 th , 2021 and each and every term,
                 covenant and condition thereof, including the current scope of service, shall remain in
                 full force and effect.

IN WITNESS WHERE OF, the Parties hereto have executed this Extension as of the day and year
written above.

   THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN                            WITTMAN ENTERPRISES, LLC
   FIRE DISTRICT

   By: - - - - - - - -- - -                               By: - -- - - -- - - - --

   Name: Dan Haverty                                      Name:

   Title: Interim Fire Chief                              Title:

   Date:                                                  Date:




                                                                                                            P17
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   Community Risk Reduction Division                    www.metrofire.ca.gov
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 310 · Mather, CA 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4330 · Fax (916) 859-3717


TODD HARMS
  Fire Chief



    June 8, 2021



    Corinne Wittman-Wong, Chief Executive Officer
    Wittman Enterprises, LLC
    11093 Sun Center Drive
    Rancho Cordova, California 95670



        NOTICE OF AWARD FOR BE P 20-11 - CRRP INSPECTION BILLING
                              SERVICES

    Pursuant to the Purchasing and Contracting Policy of the Sacramento
    Metropolitan Fire District ("District"), awards of contracts shall be determined
    and based upon the best proposal, which, in the discretion of the Board, is the
    proposal that most adequately meets the needs of the District.

     In compliance with District Policy. Wittman Enterprjses. LLC has been awarded
   · the contract for the RFP 20-11 CRRD Inspection Billing Services by the Board
     of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District at its regular meeting
     held February 25. 2021 .

    For further information, contact Mark Jones, Purchasing and Logistics
    Manager, at (916) 859-4360.




    Mark Jo!   , Purchasing and Logistics Manager




                              Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties



                                                                                                                    P18
Page2
Contract: CRRD Inspection Billing Services
RFP 20-11


                                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                    Professional Services Agreement

             This Agreement, dated as of June 8, 2021, is by and between the Sacramento
             Metropolitan Fire District ("DISTRICT"), and Wittman Enterprises, LLC
             ("CONTRACTOR") are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Parties". The
             Agreement will be effective upon final execution by all Parties.

                                                 RECITALS

            WHEREAS, the DISTRICT is responsible for providing fire and life safety code
            enforcement and inspection services; and

            WHEREAS, the DISTRICT generates billable items as a result of the provision of
            fire and life safety code enforcement and inspection services; and

            WHEREAS, the CONTRACTOR provides inspection billing services; and

            WHEREAS, the CONTRACTOR was selected by the DISTRICT to enter into this
            Agreement following a Request for Proposal (RFP) process; and

            WHEREAS, Parties wish to enter into this Agreement for the CONTRACTOR's
            provisions of inspection billing services as more fully described in Exhibit A, "Scope
            of Services" on the terms and conditions set forth herein.

            NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follow;

             1.     HEADINGS
                    Headings herein are for convenience of reference only and shall in
                    no way affect interpretation of the Agreement.

             2.     EXHIBITS
                    Exhibits A and B are attached hereto and incorporated by reference as if
                    set forth fully herein.

             3.     SCOPE OF SERVICES
                    CONTRACTOR agrees to perform all services described in Exhibit A, for
                    payment pursuant to Exhibit B, in accordance with the · terms and
                    conditions of this Agreement.

            4.     TERM
                   The Initial Term of this Agreement shall be one (1) year from the date
                   of final execution of the Agreement by the Parties, unless sooner
                   terminated as provided herein. After the Initial Term, with mutual
                   written agreement between the Parties, this Agreement may be


                                                                              Initials:~   ...{]})



                                                                                                     P19
Page 3
Contract: CRRD Inspection Billing Services
RFP 20-11


                    extended upon the same terms and conditions for no more than two
                    (2) additional one (1) year periods ("Renewal Term"). CONTRACTOR
                    shall provide written notice to DISTRICT of its intent to request
                    renewal of this Agreement no later than three (3) months prior to the
                    expiration of the Initial Term. Terms and conditions, which relate to
                    indemnification and other related matters, shall continue in effect for
                    one ( 1) year after the expiration of this Agreement.

             5.     PAYMENT
                    For service performed in accordance with the Agreement, payments will
                    be made and payment shall be made to CONTRACTOR as provided in
                    Exhibit B hereto. CONTRACTOR shall accept Government net 45 day
                    payment terms.

             6.     INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR
                    No relationship of employer and employee is created by this Agreement;
                    it being understood and agreed that CONTRACTOR is at all times an
                    independent contractor, and can perform work for others.
                    CONTRACTOR is not the agent or employee of the DISTRICT in any
                    capacity whatsoever and DISTRICT shall not be liable in any manner for
                    any acts or omissions by CONTRACTOR or for any obligations or
                    liabilities incurred by CONTRACTOR, his employees, or agents.

                    CONTRACTOR shall have no claim under this Agreement or otherwise,
                    for seniority, vacation time, vacation pay, sick leave, personal lime off,
                    health insurance medical care, hospital care, retirement benefits, social
                    security, disability, workers' compensation, or unemployment insurance
                    benefits, civil service protection, or employee benefits of any kind.

                    CONTRACTOR shall be solely liable for and obligated to pay directly all
                    applicable payroll taxes (including federal and state income taxes) or
                    contributions for unemployment insurance or old age pensions or
                    annuities which are imposed by any governmental entity in connection
                    with the labor used or which are measured by wages, salaries or other
                    remuneration paid to its officers, agents or employees, and
                    CONTRACTOR agrees to indemnify and hold DISTRICT harmless from
                    any and all liability which DISTRICT may incur because of
                    CONTRACTOR's failure to pay such amounts.

                   In carrying out the work contemplated herein, CONTRACTOR shall
                   comply with all applicable federal and state workers' compensation and
                   liability laws and regulations with respect to the officers, agents and/or ·
                   employees conducting and participating in the work; and agrees that
                   such officers, agents, and/or employees will be considered as



                                                                             lnitialsafJ    Ch.AJ
                                                                                                    P20
Page4
Contract: CRRD Inspection Billing Services
RFP 20-11


                    independent contractors and shall not be treated or considered in any
                    way as officers, agents and/or employees of District.

                    CONTRACTOR does, by this Agreement, agree to perform his said work
                    and to function at all times in strict accordance with currently approved
                    methods and practices in his/her field and acknowledges that the sole
                    interest of DISTRICT is to insure that said service shall be performed
                    and rendered in a competent, efficient, timely and satisfactory manner
                    and in accordance with the standards required by the DISTRICT.

                    Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the DISTRICT in its discretion
                    determines that pursuant to state and federal law CONTRACTOR is an
                    employee for purposes of income tax withholding, DISTRICT may upon
                    two (2) weeks' notice to CONTRACTOR, withhold from payments
                    otherwise due to CONTRACTOR hereunder federal and state income
                    taxes and to pay said sums to the federal and state governments.

             7.      INDEMNIFICATION
                     To the fullest extent permitted by law, CONTRACTOR shall release, hold
                     harmless, defend and indemnify the DISTRICT, its Board of Directors,
                     officers, employees, representatives, volunteers, and agents from and
                     against any and all claims, losses, damages, lawsuits, liabilities and
                   . expenses, including but not limited to attorneys' fees and costs, legal
                     actions, litigation, liability, or consequential damages of any kind or nature
                     (collectively "Liabilities") arising out of        or  resulting from      the
                     CONTRATOR's performance of, or failure to perform services under this
                     Agreement except where such Liabilities are caused by the sole
                     negligence or willful misconduct of any indemnitee. The DISTRICT may,
                     at its option, participate in the defense of any such claim without relieving
                     CONTRACTOR of any obligation hereunder. .

            8.      INSURANCE
                    Without limiting the DISTRICT's right to indemnification, it is agreed that
                    CONTRACTOR shall secure and maintain during the term of this
                    Agreement insurance coverage as follows :

                    General Liability - shall be on an Occurrence basis, not a Claims Made
                    basis. Minimum limits and structure shall be:
                    •     General Liability Aggregate:            $2,000,000
                    •     Products Comp/Op Aggregate:             $2,000,000
                    •     Personal & Adv Injury:                  $1,000,000
                    •     Each Occurrence:                        $1,000,000
                    •     Fire Damage: .                          $100,000




                                                                                lnitials:~_fuj •


                                                                                                      P21
Page 5
Contract: CRRD Inspection Billing Services
RFP 20-11




                    Automobile Liability
                    •     Commercial Automobile Liability (for corporate/business owned
                    vehicles, including non-owned and hired vehicles) - $1,000,000
                    Combined Single Limit
                    •     Personal Lines Automobile Liability (for individually owned vehicles)
                    - $250,000 per person, $500,000 each accident, $100,000 property
                    damage                                             ·

                    Workers' Compensation and Employer's Liability
                    •      Per Statute
                    •     $1,000,000 per accident for each accident
                    •     This policy shall be endorsed to waive the insurers' subrogation
                    rights against the District.

                    Professional Liability                                                   ,
                    •     Professional Liability or Errors and Omissions Liability: $1,000,000
                    per claim and aggregate.

                    Additional Insured
                    The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, its officers, directors, officials,
                    employees, and volunteers are to be endorsed as additional insureds as
                    respects to liability arising out of activities performed by or on behalf of
                    the CONTRACTOR, products and completed operations . of the
                    CONTRACTOR, premises owned, occupied or used by the
                    CONTRACTOR, or automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by the
                    CONTRACTOR. The coverage shall contain no endorsed limitations on
                    the scope of protection afforded to the District, its officers, directors,
                    officials, employees, or volunteers.

                    Insurance policies shall include a provision for the DISTRICT to be given
                    30 days prior written notice of cancellation and 30 days written notice of
                    any material change(s) requested by the policy holder of said insurance
                    policies. The CONTRATOR shall furnish documentary evidence of such
                    policies and the renewal or continuance of such insurances within 1O
                    business days of any expiration date(s) thereof duririg the life of the
                    contract.

                    The DISTRICT will not be responsible for any deductible that may apply
                    to any of the said insurance policies.

                    The CONTRACTOR covenants and agrees that the DISTRICT's
                    insurance requirements shall not be construed to and in no manner limit
                    or restrict the liability of the CONTRACTOR. The required coverages


                                                                               lnitials:1 i~     u


                                                                                                     P22
Page 6
Contract: CRRD Inspection Billing Services
RFP 20-11


                     outlined -above shall not limit the amount of coverage provided, but shall
                     be the minimum requirements acceptable to the DISTRICT.

                     Certificates of Insurance shall be sent to:

                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     Attn: Purchasing Division
                     3012 Gold Canal Drive
                     Rancho Cordova, CA 95670
                     (916) 859-4372
                     purchasing@metrofire.ca.gov

             9.      CONFORMITY WITH LAW AND SAFETY
                     In performing services under this Agreement, CONTRACTOR shall
                     observe and comply with all applicabl~ laws, ordinances, codes and
                     regulations of governmental agencies, including federal, state, municipal,
                     and local governing bodies, having jurisdiction over the scope of services
                     provided by CONTRACTOR.

             10.     TAXES
                     Payment of all applicable federal, state, and local taxes shall be the
                     sole responsibility of the CONTRACTOR.

             11.    OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
                    CONTRACTOR hereby assigns to the DISTRICT and its assignees all
                    copyright and other use rights in any and all proposals, plans,
                    specification, designs, drawings, sketches, renderings, models,
                    reports and related documents (including computerized or electronic
                    copies) respecting in any way the subject matter of this Agreement,
                    whether prepared by the DISTRICT, the CONTRACTOR, the
                    CONTRACTOR's sub-contractors, or third parties at the request of the
                    CONTRACTOR (collectively, 11 Documents and Materials 11) ,

                    CONTRACTOR also hereby assigns to the DISTRICT and its assignees
                    all copyright and other use rights in any Documents and Materials
                    including electronic copies stored in CONTRACTOR's information
                    system{s), respecting in any way the subject matter of this Agreement.

                    CONTRACTOR agrees to take such further steps as may be reasonably
                    requested by DISTRICT to implement the aforesaid assignment. lffor any
                    reason said assignment is not effective, CONTRACTOR hereby grants
                    the DISTRICT and any assignee of the DISTRICT an express, exclusive
                    and irrevocable royally-free license to retain and use said Documents and
                    Materials. The rights of the DISTRICT rights under this Section 12 shall
                    apply regardless of the degree of completion of the Documents and


                                                                             Initials:- #   10>-0
                                                                                                    P23
Page 7
Contract: CRRD Inspection Billing Services
RFP 20-11


                     Materials and whether or not CONTRACTOR's services as set forth in
                     Exhibit A to this Agreement have been fully performed or paid for.

                     During the term of this Agreement CONTRACTOR shall be permitted to
                     retain copies, including computerized and reproducible copies, of said
                     Documents and Materials.

             12.    ACCESS AND RETENTION OF RECORDS
                    CONTRACTOR agrees to provide the DISTRICT and its designee's
                    access to all of the CONTRACTOR'S records related this contract and
                    that the CONTRACTOR shall maintain its records related to this contract
                    for a period of not less than five (5) years after the final payment to the
                    CONTRACTOR is made by the DISTRICT.

             13.    CONFLICT OF INTEREST
                    CONTRACTOR covenants that he presently has no interest, and shall
                    not obtain any interest, direct or indirect, which would conflict in any
                    manner with the performance of services required under this
                    Agreement, including but not limited to any provision of services to
                    any federal, state or local regulatory or other public agency which has
                    any interest adverse or potentially adverse to the DISTRICT, as
                    determined in the reasonable judgment of the Board of Directors of
                    the DISTRICT. Entering into this agreement does not preclude
                    CONTRACTOR from working for others as long as CONTRACTOR
                    ensures that such work does not constitute a conflict of interest.

             14.    CONFIDENTIALITY
                    CONTRACTOR agrees that any information, whether proprietary or not,
                    made known to or discovered by him during the performance of or in
                    connection with this Agreement for the DISTRICT will be kept
                    confidential and not be disclosed to a_n y other person or entity except as
                    required by law. CONTRACTOR agrees to immediately notify the
                    DISTRICT if the CONTRACTOR is requested to disclose to others any
                    information made known to or discovered by him during the performance
                    of or in connection with this Agreement. These conflict of interest and
                    future service provisions and limitations shall remain fully effective for five
                    (5) years after CONTRACTOR's termination of services to the Districts
                    hereunder.

            15.     USE OF DISTRICT PROPERTY
                    CONTRACTOR shall not use DISTRICT property (including equipment,
                    instruments and supplies) or personnel.




                                                                                                      P24
Page 8
Contract: CRRD Inspection Billing Services
RFP 20-11


             16.    RIGHT TO TERMINATE THE AGREEMENT
                    Any of the following occurrences or acts will constitute a material breach
                    by the CONTRACTOR under the terms and conditions of the Agreement:

                    a) non-performance or non-observance of any of its other covenants,
                    agreements, or obligations hereunder, express or implied, continuing for
                    fifteen (15) days after the DISTRICT has given the CONTRACTOR notice
                    in writing. If the failure cannot be remedied within fifteen (15) days, the
                    DISTRICT, at its discretion, may extend, in writing, the time period, or
                    terminate the Agreement.
                    b) an assignment for the benefit of creditors or becoming bankrupt or
                    insolvent, taking the benefit of any legislation for the protection of bankrupt
                    or insolvent parties;
                    c) the appointment of a receiver for the CONTRACTOR; or
                    d) for reasons including, but not limited to, unethical or criminal activities.

                    In the event either subparagraphs a), b), c), or d) occur, as set forth in this
                    Agreement, the DISTRICT will have the right to terminate the Agreement
                    immediately, which shall be done in writing and sent to the CONTRACTOR
                    via certified, U.S. Mail. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, the
                    DISTRICT may, at any time during the term of the Agreement, upon giving
                    30-days written notice to the CONTRACTOR, terminate the Agreement, if
                    the DISTRICT is of the opinion that the services supplied by the
                    CONTRACTOR are of an unsatisfactory standard to the DISTRICT or that
                    the CONTRACTOR no longer has the financial capability to perform its
                                                                                                            i
                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                I

                    obligations under the Agreement. In the event of Agreement termination,
                    all documentation relating to the DISTRICT's account shall be returned to
                    the DISTRICT.

             17.    ASSURANCE OF PERFORMANCE
                    If at any time DISTRICT believes CONTRACTOR may not be adequately
                    performing its obligations under this Agreement or that CONTRACTOR
                    may fail to complete the services as required by this Agreement,
                    DISTRICT may, at its option, request from CONTRACTOR prompt written
                    assurances of performance and a written plan acceptable to DISTRICT,
                    to correct the observed deficiencies in CONTRACTOR's performance.
                    CONTRACTOR shall provide such written assurances and written plan
                    with Seven (7) calendar days of his receipt of DISTRICT request and shall
                    there after diligently commence and fully perform such written plan.
                    CONTRACTOR acknowledge and agrees that any failure to provide such
                    written assurances and written plan within the required time shall
                    constitute grounds for termination pursuant to Section 16 of this
                    Agreement.




                                                                                                      P25
Page 9
Contract: CRRD Inspection Billing Services
RFP 20-11 .



             18.     QHQICE Of LAW
                     CONTRACTOR agrees that if a dispute arises in the performance of this
                     agreement the laws of the State of California will govern.


             19.     ENTIRE AGREEMENT
                    This Agreement, including RFP 20-11, the CONTRACTOR's response to ·
                    RFP 20-11, all attachments, exhibits, and any other documents specifically
                    incorporated i.nto this Agreement, shall constitute the entire agreement
                    between DISTRICT and CONTRACTOR relating to the subject matter of
                    this Agreement. As used herein, Agreement refers to and includes any
                    documents incorporated herein by reference and any exhibits or
                    attachments.
                                                     I
                    This Agreement supersedes and merges all previous understandings,
                    and all other agreements, written or oral, between the Parties and sets
                    forth the entire understanding of the Parties regarding the subject matter
                    thereof. The Agreement may not be modified except by a written
                    document signed by both Parties.

             20.    MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT
                    This Agreement may be supplemented, amended or modified only by
                    the mutual agreement of the Parties. No supplement, amendment or
                    modification of this Agreement shall be binding unless it is in writing and
                    signed by authorized representatives of both Parties.

            21.     SEYERABILITY
                    If any part of this Agreement or the application thereof is declared to be
                    invalid for any reason, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions
                    of this Agreement which can be given effect without the invalid provision
                    or application, and to this end the provisions of this Agreement are
                    deemed severable.

            22.     SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS
                    This agreement is binding upon and inures to the benefit of the successor,
                    executors, administrators, and assigns of each party to this agreement,
                    provided, however, that CONTRACTOR shall not assign or transfer by
                    operation of law or otherwise any or all rights, burdens, duties, or            ,
                    obligations without prior written consent of the DISTRICT. Any attempted
                    assignment without such consent shall be invalid.




                                                                               lnitials:± L.L1:Y


                                                                                                        P26
Page 10
Contract: CRRD Inspection Billing Services
RFP 20-11



             23.    NOTICES
                    All notices, requests, demands, or other communications under this
                    Agreement shall be in writing. Notices shall be given for all purposes as
                    follows:

                             Personal delivery: When personally delivered to the recipient,
                             notices are effective on delivery.

                             First Class Mail: When mailed first class to the last address
                             of the recipient known to the party giving notice, notice is
                             effective three (3) mail delivery days after deposit in a United
                             States Postal Service office or mailbox.

                             Certified Mail: When mailed certified mail, return receipt
                             requested, notice is effective on receipt, if delivery is confirmed
                             by a return receipt.

                             Overnight Delivery: When delivered by overnight delivery
                             (Federal Express/Airborne/United Parcel Service/OHL) with
                             charges prepaid or charged to the sender's account, notice is
                             effective on delivery, if delivery is confirmed by the delivery
                             service.

                    Email transmission: When sent by email to the last email address of
                    the recipient known to the party giving notice, notice is effective on
                    receipt, provided that (a) a duplicate .copy of the notice is promptly
                    given by first-class or certified mail or by overnight delivery, or (b) the
                    receiving party delivers a written confirmation of receipt.

                     Addresses for purpose of giving notice are as follows:

                     To: DISTRICT:           Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                             Attn: Lisa Barsdale, Assistant Chief, Fire Marshal
                                             10454 Armstrong Ave, Ste. 310
                                             Mather, CA 95655

                    To: CONTRACTOR: Wittman Enterprises
                                    Attn: Corinne Wittman-Wong, Chief Executive Officer
                                    11093 Sun Center Drive
                                    Rancho Cordova, CA 95670

                    Any correctly addressed notice that is refused, unclaimed, or
                    undeliverable because of an act or omission of the party to be notified
                    shall be deemed effective as of the first date that said notice was



                                                                                   lnitials:J}:..J duD


                                                                                                         P27
Page 11
Contract: CRRD Inspection Billing Services
RFP 20-11



                    refused, unclaimed, or deemed undeliverable by the postal
                    authorities, messenger, or overnight delivery service. ·

                    Any party may change its mailing address or email address by giving
                    the other party notice of the change in any manner permitted by this
                    Agreement.

             24.    SIGNATORIES
                    By signing this agreement, signatories warrant and represent that
                    they have executed this Agreement in their authorized capacity.

                    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have executed this
                    Agreement as of the day and year above written.




                     :~str1.k
                     Sacramento       Metropolitan   Fire              Contractor




                              Signature
                                                            sy: ~       ;t_~
                                                                    Signature
                                                                                   aM:i~           ()

                     Name: Todd Harms                       Name: Corinne Wittman-Wong
                     Title: Fire Chief                      Title: Chief Executive Officer
                     Date:                                  Date:


                    Attachments: Exhibit A - Scope of Work
                                 Exhibit B - Compensation/ Fee Schedule/ Billing




                                                                                lnitials:J}:___I   ~
                                                                                                        P28
Page 12
Contract: CRRD Inspection Billing Services
RFP 20-11


                                                EXHIBIT A
                                             SCOPE OF WORK


            CONTRACTOR shall provide billing and collection services for fees charged by
            the DISTRICT for the performance of fire and life safety inspections, response to
            false alarms, and weed abatement costs. The fees for these services have been
            approved by the DISTRICT'S governing Board. The fee ordinance enacted by the
            DISTRICT'S Board shall be provided to the CONTRACTOR.

            The CONTRACTOR agrees to perform the following services under this
            agreement:

               1. The CONTRACTOR shall preload the information contained in this fee ordinance
                  into the CONTRACTOR'S software prior to the implementation of the services
                  requested. File Transfer Protocols will be sent automatically from MobileEyes, and
                  will include: inspection date, inspection address, inspection code, inspection fee,
                  and billable party's information. This information will be used by the
                  CONTRACTOR to generate customer invoices. False alarm information will be
                  sent to the CONTRACTOR via an Excel spreadsheet with specific codes that
                  correspond with DISTRICT approved letter templates. The CONTRACTOR will be
                  responsible for sending the appropriate letter to the customer in addition to an
                  invoice when required.

               2. The CONTRACTOR shall designate a dedicated, competent project manager who
                  shall be responsible for developing, managing, and maintaining a project plan for
                  the implementation of all components of the proposal.

                   a)· The project manager will be responsible for full project cycle planning
                       and project oversight including, but not limited to: software configuration
                       and installation and hardware installation if any.
                   b) The project manager shall be available by telephone or video
                       conference during the course of implementation.
                   c} The project manager shall meet on a weekly basis, at minimum, during
                       the project's implementation with the DISTRICT'S core project team, in
                       addition to quarterly meetings during the first y(:lar of the agreement.
                       Meetings are to present and resolve any encountered problems, any
                       mitigation action proposed or taken for encountered problems, and any
                       project work plan and schedule updates.

               3. The CONTRACTOR shall provide a liaison to the DISTRICT. This individual will
                  be a full-time employee of the CONTRACTOR, have extensive knowledge in cost
                  recovery standard practices; and have decision making authority for problem
                  resolution. This liaison shall be available during regular business hours and have
                  an alternate contact available in his/her absence.




                                                                                 lnitials:~.&_&-.J


                                                                                                        P29
Page 13
Contract: CRRD Inspection Billing Services
RFP 20-11


               4. The CONTRACTOR shall guarantee the confidentiality, security, and safety of all
                  files, documents, and information provided by the DISTRICT.

               5. Have current administrative support, technical support, and fiscal capability
                    necessary to provide and manage the proposed services, and to support technical
                    hardware and software advancements each year.

               6. Maintain the software and hardware necessary to fulfill all of the DISTRICT'S
                    requirements. Support service and maintenance of the software and hardware i_s
                    the responsibility of the CONTRACTOR for the duration of the contract.

               7. Maintain updated and current technology that will continuously provide the highest
                    level of reimbursement and customer service possible.

               8. Have the current capability to ensure an adequate audit trail.

               9. Provide a nationwide toll-free telephone number for billing inquiries. All telephone
                    calls and correspondence shall be handled in a timely, professional, and courteous
                    manner.

               10. Customer service representatives shall be available 8:00 am to 4:30 pm, Pacific
                    Standard Time, Monday through Friday, Elxcluding major holidays.

               11. Customer service representatives shall provide high-quality, courteous service to
                    customers and answer customer billing questions.

               12. Provide the DISTRICT with an initial list of personnel -assigned to the DISTRICT'S
                   account, including supervisory staff. Should the CONTRACTOR choose to assign
                   different personnel to the DISTRICT'S account during the contract period, the
                   CONTRACTOR shall provide the DISTRICT with the individual's name.

               13. Receive inspection documentation on paper and electronically from the DISTRICT.
                    Verify the receipt of these documents, and return receipt confirmation to the
                    DISTRICT. All required data from MobileEyes shall be entered into the
                    CONTRACTOR'S computerized billing system within three working days from the
                    date of receipt.

               14. Screen each document for completeness of data, codes, and procedures for billing
                ·   purposes. Generate itemized invoices using the billing files and fees provided by
                    the DISTRICT and/or clarify missing inspection charges with the CRRD
                    Administrative Specialist prior to billing. Send the CRRD Administrative Specialist
                    a request for clarification including the following information: Property Address,
                    Invoice Date and Occupancy Number.

               15. Research addresses, guarantors, payment sources, and charges.

               16. Create debtor accounts and submit bills to customers and all other appropriate
                    payers.


                                                                                   lnitials:Jfl--,   ~
                                                                                                          P30
Page 14
Contract: CRRD Inspection Billing Services
RFP 20-11



               17. Accept all credit and debit cards and other transaction types as approved by the
                   DISTRICT as forms of billing payment. A merchant account will be opened by the
                   DISTRICT for the processing of all credit and debit card transactions. Access will
                   be provided to the CONTRACTOR.

               18. Be compliant with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCIMDSS)
                   with all credit card transactions and acknowledge continued compliance annually
                   in writing.

               19. Additional fees or charges shall not be collected from debtors.

               20. Post all payments to accounts and process refunds and adjustments correctly and
                   in a timely manner, at least twice per week, in accordance with the procedures
                   approved by the DISTRICT. All bills to customers shall state the DISTRICT as the
                   payee. Payments shall be deposited directly in full (i.e. without deducting the
                   CONTRACTOR'S fees) to a designated DISTRICT bank account. For those days
                   in which deposits were made, a report shall be provided detailing the customer
                   accounts, appropriate reference numbers, and amounts that comprised the total
                  ·deposit for that day. A copy of the bank deposit confirmation shall also be provided.
                   All credit card transactions shall be processed in the same manner, and the
                   appropriate reports provided separately from the check deposit report. The
                   Proposer shall provide a detailed bill to the DISTRICT on a monthly basis for fees
                   incurred.

               21. Effect collections through written communications with debtors.

               22. Trace, follow-up, and resubmit returned or unpaid invoices.

               23. The Fire Marshal and CRRD Administrative Specialist shall be contacted about
                   accounts where no response is received from the payer within 90 days of the first
                   invoice date to determine if additional follow-up can be completed by the
                   DISTRICT and/or the CONTRACTOR prior to sending such accounts to
                   collections.

               24. Continue collection activities on each account until it is determined by the Fire
                   Marshal or the CRRD Administrative Specialist that an account is uncollectible and
                   the CONTRACTOR has been notified of this. An account is determined
                   uncollectible after payment has not been procured for ninety (90) days and the
                   process of extensive research for the appropriate responsible party has been
                   completed by the CONTRACTOR and then by the Fire Marshal or the CRRD
                   Administrative Specialist. The CONTRACTOR will send a list of accounts ready for
                   review to Fire Marshal or the CRRD Administrative Specialist that will include each
                   address that notices have been sent to for each account. After all efforts have been
                   exhausted for procuring payment as determined by the DISTRICT, the
                   CONTRACTOR shall forward all delinquent account information to a collections
                   agency designated by DISTRICT. Delinquent account information shall be sent to
                   the designated collections agency no less than every thirty (30) days. Delinquent


                                                                                   Initials:   74'-i~
                                                                                                           P31
Page 15
Contract: CRRD Inspection Billing Services
RFP 20-11


                   accounts are all accounts over 120 days past due. A minimum of two collection
                   notices shall be sent to the payer prior to forwarding their account information to
                   collections. Lack of reasonable collection effort on any account may result in
                   termination of the contract. No payment will be forthcoming on any uncollected
                   accounts.

               25. Forward refund requests and associated back-up documentation to the DISTRICT
                   in a timely manner for processing.

               26. Coordinate all disputed claims with the designated DISTRICT representative.

               27. The CONTRACTOR shall provide access to a portal wherein the DISTRICT can
                   run weekly detail and summary financial reports in Excel or similar format for each
                   billing type (i.e. inspection, false-alarms.) The reports shall contain, at a minimum,
                   the following information:
                        a) Address of Inspection
                        b) Inspection Date
                        c) Party Billed
                        d) Amount billed
                        e) Amount collected
                        f) Amount refunded
                        g) Amount sent to collections
                        h) Amount written off

                   If such is not possible, the CONTRACTOR shall deliver such reports to the
                   DISTRICT on a weekly basis.

               28. Produce "on request" reports containing any or all of the previously listed
                   information in a timely manner or based upon a standardized schedule.

               29. Provide a quarterly analysis identifying at a minimum the percent of collection,
                   timelines from billing to receipt of payment, number of complaints and types of
                   complaints received, small claims, bankruptcy filings, and other data deemed
                   necessary for business planning and future analysis.

               30. Provide a monthly reconciliation of the data received from MobileEyes and the
                   amount billed to customers. Any differences between these amounts shall be
                   explained .

               31 . Maintain records in such a manner as to be auditable by the DISTRICT'S auditors
                    at any time during normal business hours for the full term of the resulting contract.
                    The DISTRICT shall have the right to inspect all documents related to billing and
                    collection services performed pursuant thereto, including without limitation, all
                    notices, correspondence, and payments, sent or received.

               32. Maintain accurate data on records for all accounts including, but not limited to, all
                   customer contact, notices, mailing, itemization, miscellaneous requests, inquiries,


                                                                                    Initials:   1~M
                                                                                                            P32
Page 16
Contract: CRRD Inspection Billing Services
RFP 20-11


                   correspondence documents, accounting records, and transactions. The DISTRICT
                   requires data fields to support on-going planning and statistical analysis. All
                   records shall be made available to the DISTRICT upon request.

               33. Meet with the DISTRICT on a periodic or as needed basis, to discuss problems,
                   special needs, future changes, and updates in software, technology, and statistical
                   data requests.

               34. Customize billing forms and follow-up letters per DISTRICT requirements. The
                   CONTRACTOR will be responsible for sending customized letters in addition to
                   Invoices for false alarm billing.

               35. Observe debtors' rights and comply with any and all applicable Federal and State
                   laws, including by way of example and not as a limitation, applicable provisions of
                   the Federal Fair Debt Collections Practices Act, Collection Agency Act, and the
                   California Robbins-Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Agency Act. Any harassment or
                   alleged harassment of debtors or other individuals or entities on the part of
                   CONTRACTOR in carrying out the scope of work described herein may result in
                   termination for default in accordance with the terms of the resulting contract.

               36. Monitor all billing and regulatory changes impacting billing and collections and
                   adjust processes to ensure regulatory compliance. The CONTRACTOR shall
                   notify the DISTRICT of such changes with an explanation of how they will affect
                   the DISTRICT and its customers.

               37. Provide assistance and training for DISTRICT administration staff on developing
                   procedures to ensure the DISTRICT is following and meeting all Federal, State,
                   and local law for cost recovery.

               38. Proposer shall provide the DISTRICT with a computerized file of all active accounts
                   in a format agreeable to the DISTRICT upon termination of the contract.

               39. Proposer shall generate a report that can identify billing receipts for the first 90
                   days of a specific fiscal year that relates to billing invoices for the prior fiscal year
                   (e.g. receipts from July 1 to September 30, 2020 for services provided from July 1,
                   2019 through June 30, 2020).




                                                                                      lnitials:.Jb    ~

                                                                                                               P33
Page 17
Contract: CRRD Inspection Billing Services
RFP20-11



                                                    EXHIBIT B
                                COMPENSATION/ FEE SCHEDULE/ BILLING

               1. CONTRACTOR will provide the billing, collections, financial reporting, and
                  accounts receivable management described in this Agreement and Exhibit A for
                  the total amount of Seven percent (7%) of the net sums collected.

               2. The net sums shall be set forth on a monthly invoice by using the gross revenues
                  collected less any bad or insufficient checks or electronic payments, refunds,
                  adjustments, or payments on amounts sent to CONTRACTOR for collection. The
                  contracted billing fee of Seven percent (7%) will be applied to the net revenue
                  and will be paid to CONTRACTOR. No additional fees or costs for
                  implementation or administration of any account shall be charged by
                  CONTRACTOR, or paid by the blSTRICT.

               3. CONTRACTOR shall follow DISTRICT CRRD policies, procedures, as well as
                  any applicable federal, state, or local statutes in carrying out billin·g and collection
                  service. No adjustment to any amount sent for billing and collection shall be
                  made without prior authorization from the DISTRICT.

               4. A separate invoice shall be issued each month for the services provided.
                  The invoice(s) shall contain the purchase order number, dates service was
                  provided, gross collections, refund information, collection agency direct
                  payment information, net collections, and the total billed to Metro Fire.

                   Invoices shall be sent to:

                  · gates.lisa@metrofire.ca.gov

                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   Attn: CRRD
                   10545 Armstrong Ave, Ste. 310
                   Mather, CA 95655

           Failure to comply with these requirements or to provide an invoice in conformance
           with this Agreement may delay payment.

           The DISTRICT will not be bound by prices contained in an invoice that are higher
           than the pricing provided in Exhibit B. If a price increase has not been accepted in
           writing by DISTRICT, the invoice may be rejected .

           No advance payment shall be made for the goods or services furnished by the
           CONTRACTOR pursuant to this Agreement.




                                                                                     Initials:   i{/--1 dJU

                                                                                                              P34
                      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
    1           I




"·9"
                      10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


 DAN HAVERTY
Interim Fire Chief




        DATE:        June 8, 2023

        TO:          Board of Directors

        SUBJECT:     Medical Aid and Ambulance Transport User Fee Annual
                     Adjustment for FY2023/24


                                                  TOPIC

        Ordinance #2017-01 (the Ordinance), which was adopted by the Board of Directors
        on August 10, 2017, provides for an annual increase in the District's Medical Aid
        and Ambulance Transport User Fees. The effective date of the increase would be
        July 1, 2023.


                                            BACKGROUND

        In order to keep pace with annual cost inflation, the Ordinance specifies that the
        fees identified in Exhibit "A" of the Ordinance shall be adjusted annually, beginning
        July 1, 2018, and each July 1 thereafter, by the percentage change in the
        Consumer Price Index (CPI) Series Title Medical Care in the U.S. City Average,
        All Urban Consumers, Not Seasonally Adjusted, as published . by the U.S.
        Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics (the Medical CPI) for the twelve
        (12) month period ending December 31 of the preceding calendar year. The
        Ordinance also states that approval by the Board of Directors shall be by
        resolution, adopted at a regularly scheduled meeting of the Board prior to the
        enactment of the increase.


                                              DISCUSSION

        Based on the percentage change in the annual Medical CPI for calendar year 2022
        compared to calend~r year 2021; the percentage fee adjustment effective July 1,
        2023 would be 3.96%. The current and recommended fees are shown in the table
        on the next page.




                                  Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                                 P35
Page2




                                                                              Effective
                                                        Current              July 1, 2023

            First Responder Fee                                   $430                 $447
            TreaVNo Transport Fee                                  430                  447

            ALS Bundle Base Rate                             $2,325                  $2,415
            BLS Bundle Base Rate                              2,114                   2,196
            Mileage                                              41                      43
            Oxygen                                              171                     178
            Night Charge                                        152                     158
            Cardiac Monitor                                     133                     138


                                           FISCAL IMPACT

        It is estimated that the recommended fee adjustments will result in additional
        District cost recovery of approximately $800,000 during FY 2023/24.


        RECOMMENDATION

        In accordance with the Ordinance, staff recommends adoption of the attached
        resolution amending the Ambulance Fee Schedule.



        Submitted by:                                         Approved by:



        Dave O'Toole                                          Dan Havertf
        Chief Financial Offi   r                              Interim Fire Chief

                                                    /

            Rudnicki
        Assistant Chief, EMS




                                   Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                              P36
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                      10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


DAN HAVERTY
Interim Fire Chief




                                     RESOLUTION NO. 2023-xxx

          A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
        APPROVING AN ADJUSTMENT TO ITS FEE SCHEDULE FOR MEDICAL AID AND
            AMBULANCE TRANSPORT SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE DISTRICT

              WHEREAS, on August 10, 2017, the District adopted Ordinance 2017-01, an
       ordinance revising the fee schedule for medical aid and ambulance transport user fees;
       and

              WHEREAS, Ordinance 2017-01 provides for annual adjustment of fees,
       beginning July 1, 2018 and each July 1st thereafter, based on the change in the
       Consumer Price Index Series Title Medical Care in tne U.S. City Average, All Urban
       Consumers, Not Seasonally Adjusted (the Medical CPI), subject to Board of Directors
       approval by resolution; and

              WHEREAS, the change in the Medical CPI, as published by the U.S. Department
       of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, for the 12-month period ending December 31, 2022
       was 3.9%; and

             WHEREAS, it remains the intent of the District to provide medical aid and
       ambulance transport services within the District.

               NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Board of Directors hereby
       approves the 3.9% increase effective July 1, 2023 in all medical aid and ambulance
       transport services, as set forth in the attached Exhibit "A" and directs that the fees shall
       be uniformly applied and collected.

             PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 8th day of June 2023. I, MARNI
       RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
       HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular
       meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:


       AYES:
       NOES:
       ABSTAIN:
       ABSENT:




                                     Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                             P37
 Resolution No. 2023-xxx
 Page 2




                           SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                           By:-- - - -- - - -- -- -- - -
                               President, Board of Directors


ATTEST:



Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board


Attachment: Exhibit A , Fee Schedule




                           Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                    P38
Resolution No. 2023-xxx
Page 3


                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
       Ambulance, Medical Aid, and Rescue Response and Related Fees


                                    EXHIBIT "A"


                                                                    Effective
                                             Current               July 1, 2023

       First Responder Fee                             $430                  $447
       Treat/No Transport Fee                           430                   447

       ALS Bundle Base Rate                         $2,325                 $2,415
       BLS Bundle Base Rate                          2,1 14                 2,196
       Mileage                                           41                    43
       Oxygen                                          171                    178
       Night Charge                                    152                    158
       Cardiac Monitor                                 133                    138




                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                    P39
                            Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                         10545 Armstrong Avenue • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916)859-3720



 DAN HAVERTY
Interim Fire Chief


  DATE:              June 8, 2023

  TO:                Board of Directors

  SUBJECT:           Disclosure of material expenditure - Insurance Broker Services - USI Insurance
                     Services - $50,000


                                                     TOPIC

  Disclosure of material expenditure to purchase insurance brokerage services for the fiscal year
  ending June 30, 2024.

                                                   SUMMARY

  Staff will be expending funds to purchase Insurance Brokerage Services. The expenditure will
  be payable to USI in the amount of $50,000 for insurance brokerage services.

                                                 DISCUSSION

   USI Insurance Service provides Insurance Brokerage Services. Services include risk
   management, marketing, day-to-day consulting on servicing of insurance, claims services and
   risk engineering services. For the fiscal year 2023/2024, USI brokered the District's c_
                                                                                          ommercial
   insurance package.

                                               FISCAL IMPACT

   The fiscal impact is $50,000. Funds sufficient to meet this obligation are budgeted in the
   Preliminary Budget for 2023/2024.

                                             RECOMMENDATION

   Staff recommends that the Board of Directors authorize the payment of $50,000 to USI
   Insurance Services for insurance brokerage services.

                                                                      Approved by:


   Ty Ba· ey
                                                                       Ch.M.dcf~
                                                                      Dan Haverty
   Deput     hief, Administration                                     Interim Fire Chief




                                                                                                                    P40
                         Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
    1         I
                         10545 Armstrong Avenue. Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300. Fax (916)859-3720

 ~.~
 DAN HAVERTY
Interim Fire Chief


  DATE:              June 8, 2023

  TO:                Board of Directors

  SUBJECT:           Disclosure of material expenditure - Aviation Liability Insurance - Westchester
                     Fire Insurance Company- $123,533.00


                                                    TOPIC

  Disclosure of material expenditure to purchase aviation liability insurance for the fiscal year
  ending June 30, 2024.

                                                  SUMMARY

  Staff will be expending funds to purchase aviation liability insurance. The expenditure will be
  payable to Westchester Fire Insurance Company in the amount of $123,533.00 for the aviation
  policy.

                                                 DISCUSSION

   USI Insurance Services provided the District's insurance brokerage services this year and
   managed the marketing of the District's aviatfon liability insurance. The aviation liability
   insurance package for the upcoming fiscal year includes coverage for two flying helicopters and
   two grounded helicopters.

   The aviation policy premium has increased by %7 from FY 22/23 as the market conditions are
   dictating higher premiums for almost all insurance services. We will be insuring two flying
   helicopters each valued at $1,500,000 and two grounded helicopters each values at $350,000.
   The flying helicopters carry $10,000,000 of liability, and the grounded helicopters carry
   $1,000,000 of liability.

   The insurance requested includes any pilot approved by Metro Fire's Chief Pilot or designee
   and covers all uses in connection with the operations of Metro Fire including mutual aid
   agreements. Many carriers were solicited to provide a quote for the District's Aviation Insurance
   and all except Westchester Fire Insurance Company declined. Westchester Fire Insurance
   Company is the carrier recommended by USI to carry the District's aviation liability insurance
   needs. ·

                                               FISCAL IMPACT

   The fiscal impact is $123,533.00. Funds sufficient to meet this obligation are budgeted in the
   Preliminary Budget for FY 2023/2024.




                                                                                                                  P41
                                RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Board of Directors authorize the payment of $123,533.00 to
Westchester Fire Insurance Company for the purchase of Aviation Liability Insurance.



                                                   Approved by:




Ty ail                                             Dan Haverty
Depu y Chief, Administration                       Interim Fire Chief




                                                                                       P42
                      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

~.;~l



 DAN HAVERTY
               I




Interim Fire Chief
                      10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite #200, Mather, CA 95655 · (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700




   DATE:             June 8, 2023

   TO:               Board of Directors

   SUBJECT:          FY2021 Fire Prevention and Safety Grant-Award Acceptance


                                                BACKGROUND

   On February 18, 2022, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (District) submitted an
   application for funding totaling $86,850 through FEMA's FY2021 AFG Fire Prevention and Safety
   Grant Program (FP&S) to conduct a comprehensive Home Fire and Life Safety Campaign. The
   goal of the proposed program is to enhance the safety of the community by reducing overall loss,
   injury, and death due to residential fires and fire-related hazards within the targeted communities.
   The proposed program will achieve this goal by conducting home risk assessments to determine
   necessary fire and life safety mitigation measures, equipping homes with operational smoke and
   carbon monoxide alarms and other necessary ale1ting/notification devices, delivering fire and life
   safety education to residents in targeted communities using messaging and methods tailored as
   needed to encourage behavior changes that reduce risk.

                                                  DISCUSSION

    On May 19, 2023, the District received notification of an award in the amount of $86,850 for the
    completion of the proposed project. The grant award has a 2-year performance period, which
    ends April 19, 2025.

                                                FISCAL IMPACT

    The total cost of the project is $86,850, with a federal share of $82,714 and a required 5% District
    match of $4,136. Project costs and grant funding have been added into the FY2023/24
    Preliminary Budget.

                                              RECOMMENDATION

    Staff recommends adoption of the attached Grant Acceptance Resolution.


    Submitted by:

        ~                                                                dh, I             Iff'WI.
    E~:~
    Administrative Analyst
                                          ··                       RMl>ii!'.,~ ~ - --
                                                                   Accoµnting Specialfst
                                                                                                            -




                                    Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                                 P43
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite #200, Mather, CA 95655 · (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700




 DAN HAVERTY                        RESOLUTION NO. 2023-XXX
Interim Fire Chief
                          BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
                        SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                           County of Sacramento, State of California

    A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING A FY2021 FIRE PREVENTION AND SAFETY GRANT
           WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (Metro Fire) provides fire
   protection, emergency medical services and hazardous material response to a population of over
   720,000 throughout a 359 square mile area; and
           WHEREAS, Metro Fire submitted a FY2021 AFG Fire Prevention and Safety Grant
    (FP&S) application totaling $86,850 for the implementation of a comprehensive Home Fire and
    Life Safety Campaign; and
          WHEREAS, Metro Fire received an award notification on May 19, 2023 in the amount of
    $86,850 for the completion of the project.
            THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, a public
    entity established under the laws of the State of California, does hereby:

        1. Accept the grant award in the amount of $86,850 from the FY2021 AFG Fire Prevention
           and Safety Grant Program.
        2. Authorize the Fire Chief or his designee as its Authorized Agent(s) to execute and/or
           submit all required documents to the United States Department of Homeland Security (US
           OHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in order to administer the funds
           awarded.
           PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 8th day of June 2023. I, MARNI
    RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
    HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting
    of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

    AYES:
    NOES:
    ABSENT:
    ABSTAIN:
                                                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District


                                                     Pres ident, Board of Directors

    Attest:


    Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
    Clerk of the Board


                                  Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                                P44
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
 1         I
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

\11;~

     DATE:         June 8, 2023

     TO:           Board of Directors

     SUBJECT:      First Reading and Introduction of Ordinance 2023-01, Amending
                   Ordinance 2017-01 updating the District's Medical Aid and Ambulance
                   Transport User Fees

                                                TOPIC

     Introduction of Ordinance 2023-01, amending Ordinance 2017-01 adopted by the
     Board of Directors on August 10, 2017, and updating the District's medical aid and
     ambulance transport user fees. The effective date of the increase would be
     July 24, 2023, or as soon possible thereafter.

                                          BACKGROUND

     The Fire Protection District Law (Health & Safety Code §13800, et seq.) is the source
     of statutory authority for the District. Section 13916(a) provides that the District Board
     may charge a fee to cover the cost of any service which the district but limits the
     amount of the fee to the costs reasonably borne by the district in providing the service.

     The District has established user fees to defray the costs of ambulance, medical aid,
     and rescue responses and other related services provided by the District. The fees
     were last reviewed in 2017 and have been adjusted annually by the change in the
     Medical Care Consumer Price Index (CPI).

     Given increases in the cost of labor, medical supplies, and ambulances since 2017,
     staff felt it was appropriate to undertake a more thorough review of the cost of
     providing EMS related services to ensure that the fees being charged for such services
     are properly aligned with current costs. Recently, more public medical transport
     providers have converted to a single ambulance transport "base rate," as opposed to
     separate rates for Advanced Life Support (ALS) and Basic Life Support (BLS)
     transports.

                                            DISCUSSION

     A review of current EMS system costs and revenues demonstrates that the District is
     recovering roughly 34% of the cost of providing EMS services, with the balance
     covered by District property taxes and other general operating revenues. Using
     proposed FY 2023/24 budget amounts, the growth in EMS related expenses further
     outpace the growth in EMS revenue, with cost recovery declining to 32% of EMS
     system costs.

     As a general rule, fees should be reviewed and adjusted roughly every five years or
     whenever there are significant changes impacting revenues or expenses. The last
                                Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                               P45
Page 2


         comprehensive review of EMS charges occurred in 2017, and since that time there
         have been number of significant changes impacting the cost of pre-hospital
         emergency medical services provided by the District.

         With these considerations in mind, staff initiated an EMS fee study and review of billing
         practices, with the following goals:

            •   Decrease reliance on property taxes and other general operating revenues to
                fund EMS system expenses by ensuring EMS cost recovery is at least keeping
                pace with EMS costs;
            •   Establish a methodology to support an increase in EMS fees;
            •   Identify opportunities to streamline and lower costs associated with EMS
                service billing.

         The results of the study support an increase in EMS fees/cost recovery. Furthermore,
         a review of the billing practices used by other major public transport providers, and
         discussions with the District's current billing service provider, suggest that changing
         to a single base rate for an ambulance transport would result in reduced billing
         charges.
                                                           . th e f oIIowmq t abl e:
         Th e curren t and recommen d e d f ees are s hown tn
                                                                  July 1, 2023*      Recommended
         First Responder Fee                                                  $447       $500
         Treat/No Transport Fee                                               $447           -
         Assessment at Scene                                                -             $500
         Emergency Ambulance Transport Base Rate                            -           $2,780
         ALS Bundle Base Rate                                         $2,325                 -
         BLS Bundle Base Rate                                         $2,114                 -
         Mileage                                                         $41               $50
         Oxygen                                                         $171              $178
          Night Charge                                                  $152              $158
          Cardiac Monitor                                               $133              $138
         *Reflects annual CPI increase over prior year: 3.9 percent effective July 1, 2023

         The recommended fees were developed using updated costs from the 2023/24
         preliminary budget. ATTACHMENT A contains the cost analysis used to develop the
         Emergency Ambulance Transport Base Rate and ATTACHMENT B contains the cost
         analysis used to develop the First Responder Fee (when there's a transport involved)
         and Assessment at Scene (when there's no transport). The recommended charges for
         Oxygen, Night Charge and Cardiac Monitor charges are based on the current rate plus
         a Medical Care CPI adjustment.

         Most of the increased revenue from the fee adjustments would come from emergency
         ambulance transports. As noted in the following table, over 95 percent of transport
         revenues come from some form of medical insurance (private pay, Medicare, and
         MediCal), with private payers representing less than 5 percent of payments. Overall,
         95 percent of EMS fee revenue is derived from transports, and 5 percent from
         assessments at scene.


                                     Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                     P46
Page 3


                                                                   I
                                                   TRANSPORTS        ASSMT at SCENE
                     PaySource                                     '
                                                   Run Percentage     Run Percentage
                     Insurance                              14.40%              20.00%
                    Private Pay                              4.60%              38.00%
             Medicare/Workers Comp/VA                       49.50%               5.00%
                      MediCal                               31.50%              37.00%
                                                           100.00% 1           100.00%

                                             FISCAL IMPACT

         The recommended fee adjustments are estimated to generate an additional $4 million
         of EMS service cost recovery during FY 2023/24 and maintain EMS cost recovery at
         approximately 34%. Not approving the fee adjustments would result in an increased
         use of property taxes and other general operating revenues to fund EMS system costs
         and reduce funding available for other emergency services provided by the District.

         RECOMMENDATION

         Staff recommends waiving the first reading and adopt Ordinance 2023-01, an
         Ordinance of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Amending Its Medical Aid and
         Ambu lance Transport User Fees.

         Submitted by:                                Approved by:



         Dave O'Toole
         Chief Financial O ·    r




          ssistant Chief, EMS


         ATTACHMENTS: .
         Attachment A: Base Rate Cost Analysis
         Attachment B: First Responder Cost Analysis
         Attachment C: Fee Comparison
         Ordinance 2023-01




                                    Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                               P47
   l          I
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave. Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702
lfih•~
DAN HAVERTY
Interim Fire Chief


                                    PROPOSED ORDINANCE NO. 2023-01

                                  Adopted by the Board of Directors of the

                             SACRAMENTO METRO POLITAN FIRE DISTRICT

          AN ORDINANCE OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
        AMENDING ITS MEDICAL AID AND AMBULANCE TRANSPORT USER FEES FOR
                   THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT

       The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ordains as
       follows:

       SECTION 1:

       1)      On November 1, 2000, the Board of Directors of Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
       District adopted Resolution 31-00 establishing a schedule offees authorized under Health
       and Safety Code Section 13916 for providing ambulance, medical aid, and rescue
       services as set forth in Exhibit "A", attached hereto and incorporated herein.

       2)      On January 12, 2012, the Board of Directors of Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
       District adopted Ordinance 2012-01 amending its medical aid and ambulance transport
       user fees.

       3)     On August 24, 2017, the Board of Directors of Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
       District adopted Ordinance 2017-01 establishing an annual adjustment to the fees
       based on the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index (CPI), as specified in
       Section 7 below.

       SECTION 2:

       By adopting this Ordinance, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is amending its
       schedule of fees to defray the costs of ambulance, medical aid, and rescue responses
       and other related services furnished by the District. The Board of Directors of the
       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District directs that the fees shall be applied uniformly, as
       allowed by law, and collected in full subject to the provisions of Section 3 of this
       Ordinance.

       SECTION 3: Waiver of Fees

       A. The Fire Chief may waive applicable fees or costs when he/she or designated
          representative determines it is in the best interest of the Fire District to do so. The Fire
          Districts compassionate billing policy will be utilized to make these decisions.



                                       Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                                     P48
Ordinance No. 2023-01                                                             Page 2 of 4

B. The medical supply restocking fees will not be charged when those supplies used are
   replenished from other sources without charge to the Fire District.

C. The District may choose to accept actual amount of payments from the insurance
   carrier for emergency response.

SECTION       4:

To the extent that the terms and provisions of this ordinance are inconsistent or otherwise
in conflict with any terms or provisions of prior ordinances, including Resolution 31-00 or
other enactments of the District's Board of Directors, the terms of this ordinance shall
control with respect thereto.

SECTION 5:

The fees and charges imposed by this ordinance are for the purpose of meeting operating
expenses in connection with the services provided for the particular activity referred to in
each charge. These include costs for employee wage rates and fringe benefits, supplies,
equipment, or materials, related to the service being provided, and the cost to maintain
the particular service within existing service areas.

SECTION 6:

If any fee or provision of this ordinance is held invalid or unenforceable by a court of
competent jurisdiction, that holding shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the
remaining fees or provisions and the Board declares that it would have adopted each part
of this ordinance irrespective of the validity of any other part.

SECTION 7: Ambulance Fee Annual Adjustment

The fees identified in Exhibit "A" shall be adjusted annually, beginning July 1, 2018, and
each July 1st thereafter, by the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index (CPI)
Series Title Medical Care in the U.S. City Average, All Urban Consumers, Not Seasonally
Adjusted, as published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics for
t~e twelve (12) month period ending December 31 of the preceding calendar year.

Approval by the Board of Directors shall be by resolution, adopted at a regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board prior to enactment of the increase.

SECTION 8:

This ordinance shall take effect on July 24, 2023.

SECTION 9: Revision of Fee Schedule

The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District may, from time to
time, revise this fee schedule as a result of changes in operating expenses of the District.
Such revisions shall be adopted in the form of amendments to this ordinance, after public
comment at a regularly scheduled meeting of the Board in accordance with Health and
Safety Code Section 13916.
                           Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                P49
Ordinance No. 2023-01                                                            Page3 of 4


Effective July 24, 2023, and subject to the annual ambulance fee adjustment
described above, the fee schedule will be as set forth in Attachment A:



The first reading of this Ordinance was introduced at a regular meeting held on the 8th day
of June 2023.

Second reading of this Ordinance was adopted by the Board of Directors of the
Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District at a regular meeting held on the _ _ day of June
2023, by the following roll call vote:


AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:


                                           Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District


                                           President, Board of Directors


Attest:


Marni J . Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board




                           Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                              P50
Ordinance No. 2023-01                                                      Page 4 of 4




                               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

           Ambulance, Medical Aid , and Rescue Response and Related Fees



                                                   EXHIBIT "A"

First RespooAde™l' ----IF'4e4'e>---- - - -~$34 7~6:\-+l
                                                    .0O

Treatll'fo Transport Fee                     $376.00


ALS Bundle Base Rate:                        $2032.00
BLS Bundle Base Rate:                        $1849.0
Mileage:                                     $36.21
Oxygen                                       $150.43
Night charge:                                $132.52
Cardiac monitor:                             $117.28


 First Res onder Fee
 Assessment at Scene
 Emergency Ambulance Transport Base
 Rate



                 e.
 Cardiac Monitor




                                  Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                         P51
                         Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
    l         I
                         10545 Armstrong Avenue. Mather, California 95655. Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916)859-3720

 lfi,a~
 DAN HAVERTY
Interim Fire Chief


  DATE:              June 8, 2023

  TO:                Board of Directors

  SUBJECT:           Disclosure of material expenditure - Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance -
                     Safety National Casualty Corporation - $477,047.00


                                                    TOPIC

  Disclosure of material expenditure to purchase Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance for
  the fiscal year ending June 30, 2024.

                                                  SUMMARY

  The expenditure will be payable to Safety National Casualty Corporation in the amount of
  $477,047.00.

                                                DISCUSSION

  USI Insurance Services provided the District's insurance brokerage services this year and
  managed the marketing of the District's Excess Workers' Com·pensation Liability Insurance. This
  type of coverage provides the District additional insurance coverage in the event of a
  catastrophic workers' compensation loss that could occur in excess of our self-insured retention
  (the portion the District would pay before the insurance pays). After reviewing these quotes,
  self-insured retentions of $4 million, per occurrence, were selected. After having the Excess
  Workers' Compensation insurance policy in place, there has not been an instance where a
  policy has been filed because all workers' compensation claims for the District have stayed
  under the $3 million threshold per occurrence where the excess would be triggered. Because of
  this, the District is recommending that we purchase the increased retention of $4 million instead
  of the $3 million that was purchased in previous years. Several carriers were contacted during
  marketing to provide a quote for the District's Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance. Chubb
  quoted at a significantly higher amount then Safety National Casualty Corporation and Midwest
  Employers Company, Arch Insurance Company and Star Insurance declined.

  Safety National Casualty Corporation with a self-insured retention of $4.0 million was chosen as
  the carrier and is the recommendation of USI Insurance Services to carry the District's Excess
  Workers' Compensation Insurance needs.

                                              FISCAL IMPACT

  The fiscal impact is $477,047.00. Funds sufficient to meet this obligation are budgeted in the
  Preliminary Budget for 2023/2024.




                                                                                                                  P52
                                   RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Board of Directors authorize payment of $477,047.00 to Safety
National Casualty Corporation for Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance.




:s®--~--
Submitted by:                                        Approved by:


                               >
Deputy Chief, Administration




                                                                                          P53
