                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
    l          I
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

'1u~
 DAN HAVERTY
Interim Fire Chief
                     ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                                  BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                        SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                   Thursday, June 8, 2023
                               Held at the following locations:
                           10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                     Mather, California
                                                     &
                                          Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER
  The meeting was called to order at 6:01 pm by President Clark. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Jones, Rice, Saylors, Webber and Wood. Board members absent: Goold and
  Sheetz. Staff present: Interim Chief Haverty, and Board Clerk Marni Rittburg.

   PUBLIC COMMENTS

   No public comments were received.

   CONSENT ITEMS

  Action: Moved by Webber, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by members
  present to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

   1,       Action Summary Minutes
            Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Special Board
            Meeting of May 13, 2023.
            Action: Approved the Action Summary Minutes

   2.       Extension of Wittman Enterprises, LLC CRRD Regional Fire/EMS Inspection
            Billing Services Agreement
            Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief to enter into a one-year contract
            extension with Wittman Enterprises, LLC.
            Action: Approved one-year contract extension.

   3.       Medical Aid and Ambulance Transport User Fee Annual Adjustment
            for FY2023/24
            Recommendation: Adopt the attached Resolution amending the Ambulance
            Transport Fee Schedule.
            Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-031.
4.    Disclosure of Material Expenditure - Insurance Brokerage Services - USI
      Insurance Services
      Recommendation: Authorize the payment of $50,000 to USI Insurance Services for
      insurance brokerage services.
      Action: Authorized the payment of $50,000 to USI Insurance Services for insurance
      brokerage services.

5.    Disclosure of Material Expenditure - Aviation Liability Insurance - Insurance
      Services - Westchester Fire Insurance Company
      Recommendation: Authorize the payment of $123,533 Westchester Fire Insurance
      Company for the purchase of Aviation Liability Insurance.
      Action: Authorized payment of $123,533 Westchester Fire Insurance Company for the
      purchase of Aviation Liability Insurance.

6.    FY 2021 Fire Prevention and Safety Grant - Award Acceptance
      (Erin Castleberry, Administrative Analyst)
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution accepting the FY 2021 Fire Prevention and
      Safety Grant.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-032.

PUBLIC HEARINGS:

1.    Amending Medical Aid and Ambulance Transport User Fee Ordinance
      (CFO Dave O'Toole and EMS Assistant Chief Rudnicki)
      Recommendation: Conduct a Public Hearing to consider amending Ordinance 2017-
      01 updating the Fee Schedule Ordinance for Medical Aid and Ambulance Transport
      User Fees for the District. Upon conclusion of the Public Hearing, approve staff's
      recommendations and adopt first reading of the Ordinance.          Second reading
      scheduled for meeting of June 22, 2023.

      Chief Financial Officer Dave O'Toole presented the item.

      Director Clark opened the Public Hearing at 6:09 p.m., hearing no public comments, he
      closed the pubic hearing at 6:10 p.m .

      Action: Moved by Wood, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by a roll call
      vote of members present to approve staff's recommendations and adopt the first
      reading of the Ordinance.

ACTION ITEMS

1.    Fiscal Year 2023/2024 Capital Improvement Program Plan
      (Erin Castleberry, Administrative Analyst)
      Recommendation: Receive Presentation and Adopt the Resolution adopting the
      Capital Improvement Program Plan Fiscal Year 2023/2024 - 2027/2028


6.8.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                Page 2 of 10
      Action: Moved by Jones, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by roll call
      vote of members present to adopt Resolution 2023-033 adopting the Capital
      Improvement Program Plan Fiscal Year 2023/2024 - 2027/2028.

2.    Fiscal Year 2023/24 Preliminary Budget (CFO Dave O'Toole)

      A. Resolution - 2023/24 Preliminary Budget for the General Operating Fund 212A
      8. Resolution - 2023/24 Preliminary Budget for the Capital Facilities Fund 2120
      C. Resolution - 2023/24 Preliminary Budget for the Grants Fund 212G
      D. Resolution - 2023/24 Preliminary Budget for the Development Impact Fees Fund
         2121
      E. Resolution - 2023/24 Preliminary Budget for the Leased Properties Fund 212L
      F. Resolution - 2023/24 Preliminary Budget for the IGT Fund 212M
      Recommendation: Receive Presentation/Adopt FY 2023/24 Budget Resolutions.

      Action: Moved by Costa, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by roll call
      vote of members present to adopt Resolution 2023-034 adopting the 2023/24
      Preliminary Budget for the General Operating Fund 212A.
      Action: Moved by Rice, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by roll call vote
      of members present to adopt Resolution 2023-035 adopting the 2023/24 Preliminary
      Budget for the Capital Facilities Fund 2120.

      Action: Moved by Jones, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by roll call
      vote of members present to adopt Resolution 2023-036 adopting the 2023/24
      Preliminary Budget for the Grants Fund 212G.
      Action: Moved by Rice, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by roll call vote
      of members present to adopt Resolution 2023-037 adopting the 2023/24 Preliminary
      Budget for the Development Impact Fees Fund 2121.

      Action: Moved by Jones, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by roll call
      vote of members present to adopt Resolution 2023-038 adopting the 2023/24
      Preliminary Budget for the Leased Properties Fund 212L.
      Action: Moved by Jones, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by roll call vote
      of members present to adopt Resolution 2023-039 adopting the 2023/24 Preliminary
      Budget for the IGT Fund 212M.

3.    Disclosure of Material Expenditure - Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance
      Safety National Casualty Corp.
      (DC Bailey)
      Recommendation:       Authorize the payment of $477,047 to Safety National
      Casualty Corporation for Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance.
      Action: Moved by Webber, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by roll call
      vote of members present to authorize the payment of $477,047 to Safety National
      Casualty Corporation for Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance.


6.8.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                 Page 3 of 10
4     Consideration and Board Direction on Developing a Lift Assist Fee
      (Interim Fire Chief Haverty)
      Recommendation: Discuss and provide direction to staff.
      Action: Board consensus to bring back recommendations to the Board at a future
      meeting.

REPORTS

1.    PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Clark)

      No Report

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Interim Chief Haverty)

     1. New Hire

          a. Please join me in welcoming:
                 i. Milton Mora Zaragoza, hired as an Accounting Specialist in the Finance
                    Division effective June 1;

     2. Last week I had the honor of recognizing Engineer John Walsh for his 40 years of
        service with the District.

     3. Recruitment

          a. HR is accepting applications for:
                i. Paramedic (internal/external) with a final filing date of June 30 by 4 PM

                  ii. Firefighter/Paramedic for the 24-1 fire academy tentatively scheduled for
                      January or February 2024. Application deadline is July 7 by 4 PM

                iii. Metro Medic Program 23-1 Drill Instructors filing date extended to June
                     16. We have three instructors and need six.

          b. Congratulations to the following personnel who successfully completed the
             2023 Fire Captain examination in the order indicated below. The eligibility list
             will be effective immediately and will end on June 5, 2025.




6.8.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 4 of 10
          C.
                                           1    Nicholas    CovinQton
                                           2    Andy        Field
                                           3    Jeffrey     Miller
                                           4    Kyle        Fritz
                                           5    Tim         White
                                           6    Jacob       Currie
                                           7    Aaron       Wynne
                                           8    Trevor      Jamison
                                           9    Igor        Zalutskiy
                                           10   Ryan        McDermott
                                           11   Mark        Gusevnov
                                           12   Jacob       Buzzetta
                                           13   Ryan        Van Brunt
                                           14   Thomas      DeGrace
                                           15   Daniel      Weld
                                           16   Addam       Schwartz
                                           17   Katie       Trimble
                                           18   Chris       Greoorv
                                           19   Tyler       Oshiro
                                           20   John        Cassara
                                           21   Nathaniel   Hazlett
                                           22   Kiegon      List


     4. Miscellaneous

          a. Chief Bailey and I attended a kick-off fund raising meeting with Supervisor Frost,
             Roger Mitchell and Good Life to discuss the restoration of old fire station in Rio
             Linda.

          d. Tomorrow, June 9 the following two events will take place:

                 i. The Congressional Briefing and Tour of the Zinfandel Training with
                    Congressman Ami Bera is scheduled for 9:30 AM.

                 ii. Celebration of life for BC John French, 11 :30 AM at the Del Webb-
                     Lincoln Sports Pavilion located at 1050 Del Webb Blvd. Lincoln, CA.
                     95648. Chief French retired in 1990 from the American River Fire
                     District. He worked out of then Station 1, now Station 101 . He began his
                     career with the Arden Fire Department.




6.8.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 5 of 10
OPERATIONS REPORT (Deputy Chief Adam Mitchel~

1. SOC/STRATEGIC PLAN UPDATE
   A. SOC is nearing completion of final draft. Update is that completion is anticipated by
      end of this month.
   B. Once this document is complete, we will determine where the strengths and
      opportunities for improvement are across the District, then determine which
      opportunities should be prioritized to address immediate needs of the community.
   c. This is right in alignment with the strategic plan process that was discussed recently.
   D. Once this information is compiled and recommendations are developed with member
      input, we will come back to the Board with recommendations for review/adoption to
      support the strategic plan process.

2. SERVICE DELIVERY PLANNING UPDATE
   A. Thank you for the direction on how to proceed on transitioning some of our FDMs to
      MMP units at the last meeting.
   B. The intent is to work through this transition to lower mandatory callback and brownout
      potential in the near term, while allowing the more sustainable strategic planning
      decision process to take over towards the end of this calendar year and into next fiscal
      year.
   C. To finalize implementation of the transition as directed by the Board, we have an
      upcoming planning meeting to determine dates and workload for finishing phase 1 and
      parts of the phase 2 ASAP.

3. BURN INJURY UPDATE
   A. In the early morning hours of Sunday, June 4th , our members responded to structure
      fire in Battalion 5's area.
   B. A member sustained superficial and partial thickness burns to the ears, face, neck,
      wrists and leg as a result of this incident.
   C. I wanted to express our gratitude to the FFBI and the Liaison Response Team for their
      support of our members in receiving the highest level of care when these situations
      occur. They were there that morning when called and continue to follow up with our
      member.
   D. Happy to report the member was treated and released that same morning at UCO. I
      spoke with him yesterday and happy to say he is doing well and has been following up
      with the Burn Institute.

4. PUBLIC FEEDBACK
   A. A member of the public reached out to express her gratitude for services rendered by
      our crews at St. 32 on multiple occasions over the last couple months.
   B. Read an excerpt from an email sent in by a member of the public to Chief Haverty.



6.8.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 6 of 10
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT (Deputy Chief Ty Bailey)

Community Relations Division
• Working with the City of Rancho Cordova and City of Citrus Heights to get fireworks
  safety messaging out. Will be filming a shoot with CHPD to use in our marketing. Will also
  be filming with Sac Sheriff and RCPD for fireworks messaging .
• 30 Metro engines now have firework decals on them - 'Keep is Safe, Keep it Legal'
• Successful open house at station 68 on 5/27/23 - Thank you to CERT for providing
  'Hands Only CPRE education' and the 68A crew for spraying water and engaging with the
  community. Flare the fire dog made an appearance. Special thanks to our Air Ops for
  having the helicopter flyover at the open house. Several hundred community members
  came out for the tour and it was well received by the Rancho Cordova community.
• Captain Wilbourn did a live interview with Fox, this evening June 8, 2023 at 5:00pm
  regarding wildfires.
• We continue to disseminate information to the community regarding the recent arson fires
  and continue to as the community for assistance.

    RFP for Workers Compensation
•   Interviews are being held the last week of June.

    Finance
•   Finance welcome Milton Mora as an Accounting Specialist, who replaced Nati Manalo,
    who retired in March.
•   Finance has also begun to meet with the District's new independent auditor, Badawi and
    Associates, who the Board at the May 25th Board meeting .
•   Finance has commenced its biannual District equipment inventory, a process requiring
    visits to every District property and substantial coordination. Work will finish later this
    month.

    Human Resources
•   Administrative Specialist Interviews 6/22/23
•   BC Exam's next week
•   1 Fire Investigator II - starting on 6/12/23
•   1 Office Technician - starting 6/12/23
•   1 Office Technician in backgrounds
•   1 Logistic Technician in backgrounds

    Backgrounds
•   MMP 23-1 Academy scheduled to start on July 10, 2023:
            o 10 EMTs
            o 15 Paramedics (background being completed for this group)

•   MMP 23-2 Academy TBD
            o Background orientation being held on 6/12/32
            o 7 Paramedics
6.8.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 7 of 10
•    Reserve Firefighters:
              o 4 Reserve Firefighters will be starting on 6/10/23


SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT (Deputy Chief Tyler Wagaman)

DC Wagaman gave a branch update on the efforts of the Community Risk Reduction Division
(CRRD) fireworks enforcement and messaging. CRRD, Chief Law and our Fire Investigation
Unit has been working tirelessly over the last several months with our regional partners to put
a solid plan together to combat illegal fireworks. Chief Law and Deputy Chief Amy Nygren
will be presenting this plan at the upcoming Board of Supervisors meeting . We have already
been receiving an uptick in complaints on illegal fireworks. If you experience illegal fireworks
activity in and around your community, in addition to your local law enforcement, please
access the Metro Fire Website where we have links, phone numbers and emails for the
various agencies and who to contact.

The Fire Investigation Unit has been tremendously busy. There is some relief ahead as a
new Fire Investigator will be starting on June 12th who has years of law enforcement training
and experience.

Facilities has been very busy installing A/C units, painting, bathroom remodels , Station 50
privacy project was awarded, and one of our newest Facilities Technicians will be installing a
new countertop at Station 41.

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Vice President Matt Cole)

Firefighter/Paramedic Brian Cowin gave the report for Matt Cole and congratulated the 22
personnel that passed the Captains test and wished the personnel that will be taking the BC
exam nest week the best of luck. Local 522 is looking forwarding to scheduling a labor
management meeting to discuss the detailed employment changes the Board approved
during the last meeting.

4.      COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
        All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
        10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

        A.      Executive Committee - (President Clark)
                Next Meeting: TBD
                 No Report.

        B.      Communications Center JPA- (D.C. Wagaman)
                Next Meeting: June 13, 2023 at 9:00 AM
                 No Report.

        C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
                 Next Meeting: July 27, 2023 at 5:30 PM
                 No Report.
6.8.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                          Page 8 of 10
        D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
               Next Meeting: TBD

        Director Costa reported the Policy Committee met tonight and moved the FMLA Policy
        forward for Board consideration and approval at a future meeting.

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Jones thanked Station 68 and staff for a great open house. It was a terrific
opportunity for friends and neighbors to come together to see the new station.

Director Saylors congratulated the personnel who successfully completed the 2023 Fire
Captain examination and wished the personnel good luck that will be taking the BC exam
next week. Stay safe out there, grass season is upon on.

Director Rice thanked Interim Chief Haverty for bringing up BC John French and his many
years with the fire service. He was such a sweet man and will be missed. Director Rice
requested a presentation from Robert "Bobbie" Sestito of Logistics on the personal protective
equipment program.

Director Wood thanked Station 62 for their time. Director Wood encouraged everyone to
purchase a ticket to Luau On The Links on Saturday, June 24th from 7 to 11 p.m. which
supports a great organization, the Firefighters Burn Institute.

Director Clark thanked staff for the hard work and dedication to Metro Fire and the fire
service.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:
https://metrofire.ca.gov/2023-06-08-board-meeting

The Board recessed to Closed Session at 7:44 p.m. on the following matter:

CLOSED SESSION

1.      PERSONNEL MATTERS - PUBLIC EMPLOYEE EMPLOYMENT
        Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957
        Fire Chief Selection Process
        Action: The Board took no reportable action.

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The board reconvened to open session at 7:59 p.m. and reported:

     1. The Board met on the Fire Chief Selection Process, and no reportable action was
        taken.
6.8.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 9 of 10
ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:00 p.m .




D'Elman Clark, Presidenf




6.8.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes   Page10of10
