                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I
                   10545 Armstrong Ave. , Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~hi~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                                 ADOPTED
                   ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                               BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                       SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                Thursday, October 10, 2024
                               Held at the following locations:
                           10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                      Mather, California
                                               &
                                     Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm by President Goold. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold, Jones, Rice, Saylors, Sheetz, Webber, and Wood. Board members
  absent: None. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  One (1) public comment was received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Jones seconded by Wood and carried unanimously by members present
  to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.     Action Summary Minutes
         Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
         of September 12, 2024.
         Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.


  2.     Contract Approval - Scott's PPE Recon for Care & Maintenance of Personal
         Protective Equipment
         Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to execute a piggyback
         agreement with Scotts PPE Recon Inc. for the provisions of turnout gear inspection,
         cleaning, repair, and alteration services. This contract would be in effect until all
         extensions have been exhausted by the City of San Jose or unless terminated sooner.
         Action: Approved.
PRESENTATION ITEMS

1.        Ad Hoc Committee Update
          (Director Webber)
          Recommendation: Receive update.
          Action: Director Webber updated the Board on the accomplishments of the Ad Hoc
          Committee. Director Webber thanked all the members of the Ad Hoc Committee for their
          hard work and commitment.

2.        25 Years of Service to Director Goold
          (Chief House)
          Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.
          Action: Chief House presented Director Goold with his 25 years of service pin.

REPORTS

1.       PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Goold)

         No report except to offer gratitude to my fellow Board Members.

2.       FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -        (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

Good evening, President Goold, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public.

New Hire:
The District would like to welcome:
     •    Angela Lewis, hired for the position of Workers' Compensation Coordinator effective
          October 1. Angela came to the podium and introduced herself to the Board .
Other:
     •    With member health and wellness as a top priority, Peer Support Program Manager
          Captain Manfredi, Coach Gallagher, and I attended last week's annual Fire Service
          Psychology Association conference in Washington, D.C. This was the first time that
          Metro Fire had attended this conference, and that was primarily attributed to the
          personal invite I received from DCs Fire and EMS Chief, John Donnelly. Metro Fire
          was the only fire department from the West Coast in attendance at the conference.
          The conference served as a networking opportunity to join fire service leaders,
          psychologists, clinicians, and other peer support team members in sharing information
          that is assisting in developing fire service psychology, education on current liability,
          safety trends, latest research, and best practices as it relates to bridging the gap
          between professional psychology and the fire service.

     •    On Monday, October 7, several members attended and participated in the Fallen
          Brother statue replacement event at the new memorial site at Capitol Park. Thank you
          to the Ca Fire Foundation for coordinating and including us in this event.




10.10.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 2 of 6
   •   As a reminder, the California FF Memorial Ceremony will be held this Saturday,
       October 12, at 3 p.m., at the Safe Credit Union Convention Center. Retired Captain
       Robert (Bob) Bruce will be honored, and his name will be added to the memorial wall.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

Shift Commander Spotlight:

Battalion Chief Aldrich brought in Station 61 crew to talk about the special operations
program: Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Program.
The items discussed were:

          •   The basic capabilities and functions of our UAV program
          •   Types of incidents it can assist with
          •   Specific response examples both at Metro and to our neighboring agencies

The crew also performed a live demonstration to show the Board Members what the incident
commander would see from their perspective by utilizing a tablet.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Johnson)

COMMUNITY RELATIONS DIVISION
  • Night at the Museum was a huge success! This event was held in recognition of Fire
    Prevention Week. We collaborated with the City of Rancho, the Sacramento Museum,
    and other fire and life safety organizations such as the Firefighters Burn Institute, Red
    Cross, UC Davis, and Kiwanis to provide fun and interactive ways to teach safety to
    children in our area.
  • Fire Station 28 Open House in Citrus Heights will be held on October 19 from 10 to
    noon. Bring your families and enjoy fun activities.

RECRUITMENT & OUTREACH

   •   On September 28th, our Explorers participated in the first annual Northern California
       CSFA Explorer Muster. Our team took home the first-place trophy. Chief House and
       Chief Fiorica attended. Thanks to Chief Johnson at El Dorado Hills FD for hosting.

SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Bailey)

Facilities:
   • Station 42 shed removal is complete and the fence has been repaired, thank you to
        Facilities as well as Deputy Fire Marshall Amy Nygren.
   • District wide generator services start this month and will continue through November.
   • Station 106 Generator transfer switch replacement is complete.
   • Continuing to work on Station maintenance and upkeep.
   • Stations 66, 25, and 27 asphalt repairs, reseal and restripes are complete.

Communications:
  • Communications equipment has been installed in 6 new medics, completing all 6 units.
  • Congratulations to Alejandro Ybarra on his promotion to Communications Supervisor.

10.10.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 3 of 6
CRRD:
  • Deputy Fire Marshall Amy Nygren spoke on Fire Prevention week is observed each
    year during the week of Oct. 9th. This year, Oct. 6 - 12. It was established to
     commemorate the tragic 1871 Great Chicago Fire. The fire burned for three days and
     killed more than 250 people, left 100,000 homeless, destroyed more than 17,400
     structures and burned more than 2,000 acres.

         In a fire, mere seconds can mean the difference between a safe escape and a
         tragedy. This year's Fire Prevention Week campaign is "Smoke alarms: Make them
         work for you!". This campaign strives to educated everyone about the importance of
         having working smoke alarms in the home. It is important that smoke alarms are
         installed in every bedroom, outside each sleeping area, and on every level of the
         home. Test your smoke alarms at least once a month and make sure everyone knows
         the sound of the alarm and how to respond. Replace all smoke alarms when they are
         10 years old from the date of manufacture or when they stop responding when testing.

     •   At last night's City of Citrus Heights Council Meeting, Deputy Fire Marshall Nygren, on
         behalf of Metro Fire, received a proclamation proclaiming Oct. 6-10th as "Fire
         Prevention Week".

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
     522 Unit Director Captain Pete Votava gave the Local 522 report for Captain Scollard.
     Congratulations to Director Goold for 25 years on the Board and your unwavering support.
     Thank you to Chief House for attending the service for West Sacramento Fire Department
     Engineer Timothy Hall. Thank you to the members who are volunteering their time to
     support Measure 0. We urge members to attend the California FF Memorial Ceremony
     this Saturday, October 12 at Capital Park.

4.       COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
         All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
         10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.


         A.      Executive Committee - (President Goold)

                  No Report

         8.      Communications Center JPA- (Deputy Chief Bailey)
                  No Report

         C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
                  No Report

         D.       Policy Committee - (Director Saylors)

                 Met tonight on the revised Non-Discrimination Policy Board Policy which will
                 come to the Board for approval at a future meeting. The District Vehicle Use
                 Policy was pulled from the agenda for future review and will be brought back to
                 the Policy Committee at a future meeting.



10.10.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                         Page 4 of 6
BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Saylors thanked Engine 111 Captain Pete Votava, Firefighter Daniel O'Maley and
Firefighter Andrew Palmer for their help.
Director Sheetz thanked Director Goold for his 25 years of service. I've been honored to
serve with you for eight years.

Director Clark congratulated Director Goold for 25 years of service on the Board. Thank you
for the mentorship and leadership.

Director Wood echoed the sentiments of his fellow Directors in thanking and congratulating
Director Goold for 25 years of service.

Director Rice expressed gratitude to Director Goold for his commitment to the community,
education and to this organization. You taught me what real patient care looks like and I'm
honored to serve with you.

Director Jones echoed the sentiments of his fellow Directors in thanking and congratulating
Director Goold for 25 years of service. Shout out to the Engine 62 crew for participating in
the Annual Picnic in the Park. Shout out to BC Tom Koscielny and Captain Mike Rowan,
Engineer Ryan Wolfe and Firefighter Alexander Pibl for the generosity of their time.

Director Costa echoed the sentiments of his fellow Directors in thanking and congratulating
Director Goold for 25 years of service. Thank you to the Ad Hoc Committee on all the work
they have done.

Director Goold thanked his wife for supporting him for 25 years. There is no way I could do
this without her support and the support of my family.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to Closed Session at 7:11 p.m. on the following matter:

1.     PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION § 54956.9 (a) - ONE (1)
       MATTER OF WORKERS COMPENSATION SETTLEMENT AUTHORITY:

       1.     Brian Watley and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              Claim # 4A2208B0Z9F00001 - Workers Compensation Settlement
              Authority
              Colin Connor of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

       Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Director Costa, and carried 8 - 1 by
       members present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a
       settlement of the matter.

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened to open session at 7:25 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
the Board met in closed session on one matter: 1. Workers Compensation Claim of Brian
Watley, the Board voted 8 to 1 to give authority to its third-party administrator to effectuate a
settlement in the matter.


10.10.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 5 of 6
To view the video of the meeting , please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2024-10-10-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT




Mar i Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk




10.10.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                           Page 6 of 6
