Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.

Tuesday, May 17, 2022

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

B. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Talamantes called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m. Other Board members
present: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Alfred Brown,
Joanne Ahola. Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to
the Board; Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota; General Counsel Teresa Stinson;
Associate Superintendent Nick Schweizer; Assistant Superintendents Jacqueline White,
and Brent Malicote; Executive Directors Michael Kast, Jerry Jones and Channa Cook-
Harvey; and Directors Becky Sullivan, Frank Pisi, and Tim Herrera.

C. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Keefer lead the pledge.

2. No Approval of Minutes

3. Adoption of Agenda

Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented by Trustee Fong, second
by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

4. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

5. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

There were two public comments:

Sean Frame, SCOE Employee, addressed the Board about continuing to work remotely.
Annette Deglow, Retiree, addressed the Board to ask SCOE for an investigation
regarding her employment with the Los Rios Community College District.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no requests from employee organizations.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
On Thursday, June 2, we will be holding a graduation ceremony for our community
school students. The event begins at noon at the Sacramento Scottish Rite. At its
meeting tomorrow, the California State Board of Education is scheduled to take action
on a list of proposed Cohort 1 grantees for the California Community Schools
Partnership Program, Planning Grants. SCOE’s award, pending State Board approval
will be $200,000.

EL CENTRO
We are so proud of our students at El Centro Jr./Sr. High School. Our construction class
participated in the Design/Build competition sponsored by the Sacramento Builders
Exchange. Superintendent Gordon is proud to announce the team earned an Award of
Merit for their efforts. The El Centro team built a beautiful shed, and we have been told
by the program organizers that ours is the first team from a residential youth facility to
ever participate in this competition. Great work by our students, El Centro staff, and our
partners Northern California Construction Training for working with our students.

SPECIAL EDUCATION UPDATE
On Wednesday and Thursday of last week, we hosted graduations for two cohorts of
young adults who graduated from the SCOE Foundations Academy, which provides
services to students from ages 3–22. During the ceremonies, a total of twelve students
received certificates of completion for their participation in the program. His thanks to
Trustees Lefkovitz, Brown, and Keefer for attending the ceremonies and helping us
celebrate these students. On June 3, we are hosting a graduation ceremony at Leo A.
Palmiter beginning at 11:30 a.m.

COLLEY DEDICATION
On May 9, we held the formal dedication of our Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School
campus. Guests enjoyed a ceremony that included musical performances by the
Fortune Charter School Drumline, speeches from local dignitaries such as Mrs. Ola
Colley Brown, former Sacramento Police Chief Daniel Hahn, and our own Board
President Karina Talamantes. Guests toured the campus where we had magnificent
displays detailing Nathaniel Colley’s incredible accomplishments. The dedication
certainly was a day to remember, and he wants to say thanks to Shanine Coats, our
Director of Strategic Initiatives, for leading the committee that put this event together.
Superintendent Gordon read a thank you letter from the Colley Family which included a
$2,000 donation.


CLASSIFIED SCHOOL EMPLOYEE WEEK
This is Classified School Employee Week where we celebrate the amazing support staff
and paraprofessionals who help our schools, programs, and offices succeed. Classified
employees perform essential work. It is often behind the scenes, but we could not
function without them. To thank our classified employees, we sent them all thank you
cards which included a $5 gift card to Cold Stone Creamery, courtesy of our friends with
SchoolsFirst Financial Credit Union. In addition, we produced a video tribute that you
will find on the SCOE social media channels. Thank you to our classified employees!

RIVER CATS/CLASSIFED SCHOOL EMPLOYEES EVENT
On June 12, the Sacramento River Cats will be hosting the Sacramento County
Classified School Employees of the Year at a special recognition event during their 1:00
p.m. game against the Reno Aces. We are thrilled that SchoolsFirst Federal Credit
Union is sponsoring the Giant Suite at Sutter Health Park and will provide food and
refreshments for classified employees and guests. There will also be an on-field
recognition for the classified employees. If you would like to attend, please let the SCOE
Communications Office know by May 23.

DAY OF TEACHER
Wednesday, May 11, was California Day of the Teacher. He wants to take this
opportunity to say how much he appreciates all our extraordinary SCOE teachers who
work tirelessly to keep students learning and thriving, and who support our families. As
a thank you to our teachers, we sent thank you cards and trays of cake pops to our
school sites. We also produced a video tribute that you will find on the SCOE social
media channels. Thank you, teachers!

SCHOOL TO WORLD AWARDS
On May 26, beginning at 11:00 a.m., students involved in our WorkAbility Program and
staff of our Palmiter, and Hickey campuses will be celebrating successes at the Annual
"School to World" Awards. The program is a partnership between SCOE and area
businesses that offers students valuable entry-level job experience, and an active way
to learn social skills.

NATIONAL HISTORY DAY – CALIFORNIA
The 2022 National History Day—California state competition concluded on May 8, at
William Jessup University. Twelve students from Sacramento County were named
either Champions, Runners-Up, or received honorable mentions in their categories. You
will find the story on the SCOE website. Monterey Trail High School teacher Maryville
Poe was announced as a nominee for the “Patricia Behring Teacher of the Year” award,
a national honor for teachers who engage History Day students through innovative
teaching and active learning strategies. The 2022 national competition will be conducted
online in June. His thanks to SCOE Student Events Coordinator Craig Irish and his
team for running the event.
OPERATION RECOGNITION INTRODUCTION
In October of 2001, our County Board of Education adopted “Operation Recognition” to
honor those whose high school educations were interrupted due to circumstances of
World War Two, the Korean War and the Vietnam War. During those eras, thousands of
young men and women left high school to serve in the United States Armed Forces.
Upon their return, many were unable to complete high school. We also honor Japanese
American citizens who were forced to leave their homes to be interned in relocation
camps at various locations in the United States. We are so proud to say that through
Operation Recognition our Board of Education has proudly awarded 199 diplomas.
Tonight, we will award diploma number 200! It is his pleasure to call on SCOE
Communications Director Tim Herrera to introduce this item.

B. Recognition of the June 2022 Employees of the Month

Olivia Campoverde and Osmara Contreras Gonzalez, Project Assistants, Prevention &
Early Intervention, were recognized and honored as the classified employees of the
month for June.

Angel Martinez, Teacher, Alternative Education, was recognized and honored as the
certificated employee of the month for June.

C. Operation Recognition - Awarding of Diploma - Tim Herrera

Director Tim Herrera presented this item and introduced the guest of honor: Charles
“Chuck” LeDoux. Mr. LeDoux is the 200th individual to be awarded a high school
diploma through SCOE's Operation Recognition program.

Mr. Herrera also introduced scholarship essay contest winner Lorenzo Chacon, a
student at Foothill High School, Twin Rivers Unified School District. Mr. Chacon read his
top selected essay. The 2022 scholarship contest theme is “How We Can Thank Our
Veterans for Their Sacrifices.” He received a $1,000 scholarship sponsored by SAFE
Credit Union. Herb Long from the Board of Directors from SAFE presented the check to
Mr. Chacon.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda

Motion to adopt Consent Agenda by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

By approval of the consent agenda, the following items were approved:
B. Accept Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students – Jacqueline
White/Michael Kast

Michael Kast, Executive Director, announced that the following students will be awarded
a diploma: 9 candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School; 2 candidates from
Cordova Lane Senior Extension; 5 candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School; 3
candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension; and 11 candidates from North
Area Senior Extension.

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

A. No Grants Applications/Service Contracts

10. New Business - Other

A. Second Reading and Adoption of New Board Policy 3311.1 - Uniform Public
Construction Cost Accounting Procedures and Adoption of Resolution No. 22-10 -
Teresa Stinson

General Counsel Stinson presented this item. Item does not require a first or second
since it is being recommended by the Board’s Policy Committee.

Trustee Lefkovitz asked for an update one year from now to evaluate the effectiveness.

Final Resolution: Adoption of the new Board Policy 3311.1 Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

B. Second Reading and Adoption of New Proposed Board Bylaw 9150 - Student County
Board Members - Teresa Stinson

General Counsel Stinson presented this item. Item does not require a first or second
since it is being recommended by the Board’s Policy Committee.
Final Resolution: Adoption of the new Board Bylaw 9150 Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

C. Second Reading and Adoption of New Proposed Board Bylaw 9400 - Board Self-
Evaluation - Teresa Stinson

General Counsel Stinson presented this item. Item does not require a first or second
since it is being recommended by the Board’s Policy Committee.

Final Resolution: Adoption of new Board Bylaw 9400 Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

D. Adoption of Resolution No. 22-11 and Approval of the Joint Powers Authority
Agreement Creating Government Financial Services JPA - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer presented this item.

Motion to approve by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

E. Student Board Member Discussion - Jacqueline White/Brent Malicote

Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White and Director Frank Pisi presented this item.

Board members asked questions and provided feedback on the three options. SCOE
staff will take the Board’s feedback to design an approach and report back to the Board.

F. Board Report - Early Literacy Support Block Grant - Expert Lead in Literacy - Dr.
Channa Cook-Harvey

Executive Director Channa Cook-Harvey introduced Director Becky Sullivan to make
this presentation.

G. Pending Legislation - Assembly Bills 2774 and 2617 - Teresa Stinson

General Counsel Teresa Stinson presented this item.

Trustees Lefkovitz and Brown think the Board should send a letter on both of these
items.
President Talamantes thinks we should be consistent in how we support, or do not
support, legislation.

Trustee Ahola thinks these are not controversial.

Trustee Keefer agrees that if legislation impacts SCOE students, SCOE should consider
those accordingly. If these bills positively impact SCOE students, we should support
them.

Motion by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Keefer to send a letter expressing the
Board’s support for Assembly Bills 2774 and 2617.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola reported the Colley event was lovely and a pleasure to attend and spend
time with the Colley family.

Trustee Brown thanked Superintendent Gordon and staff on behalf of the Colley family
for the great event.

Trustee Lefkovitz expressed that the Colley event was very moving, including the native
land statement that was read. Do we want to include this at our Board meetings? Would
like a dashboard data report from all the districts.

Superintendent Gordon said it will not be available this year.

Trustee Keefer commented on the great graduations and great event at Colley. He
received a notification from a constituent about helping students with accessing financial
aid. Can we make it standard to equip students with the tools necessary to attend
college?

Trustee Davis commented that she appreciates what she learns from staff and the
passion they bring to their work. She also stated that, in reviewing photos of past Board
members, she is noticing increased diversity.

Trustee Fong thanked Ms. Sullivan for her presentation. He also enjoyed the Colley
event and hopes that the Colley family will be proud of future Colley graduates. Trustee
Fong asked Superintendent Gordon to respond to the public commenter about her
retirement.
Superintendent Gordon responded that we have no jurisdiction over the community
colleges.

B. Board President

President Talamantes expressed appreciation for the Colley event. She would like to
present a certificate to the family of her Head Start teacher recognizing her commitment
to the program. She helped pass a school bond in Natomas in 2018. Last weekend
there was a groundbreaking for the Heredia-Arriaga School which will have a Spanish
dual language immersion (DLI) program. She thanked the team for the celebration at
Colley and expressed excitement for the students.

C. There were no Committee reports.

12. Items for Distribution

A. May/June Events
B. May/June Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. June 14, 2022
B. June 28, 2022

14. Adjourn the Meeting

A. Motion to adjourn by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Meeting adjourned at 9:06 p.m.

Respectfully Submitted,


Date approved:
