Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, April 15, 2025

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Brown called the regular meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Other Board members
present: Harold Fong, Paul Keefer, Bina Lefkovitz, Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Heather
Davis, and Vanessa Caigoy. SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing Students
Judith Marquez was present.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Dr.
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; Associate General Counsel Ava Yajima;
Associate Superintendents Nicolas Schweizer and Brent Malicote, Assistant
Superintendents Michael Kast and Jacqueline “Jackie” White; Executive Directors
Xanthi Soriano and Jerry Jones; Director Shanine Coats; and Executive Assistant
Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Davis led the Pledge of Allegiance.
President Brown read a Land Acknowledgement.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

There were seven public comments in support of Miracle University from Victoria Logan,
Aaron Cardoza, Mary and Britney Carter, Kyler Cockrell, Tonya Jacobs, Eric Arias, and
Eric Tirado.

There was also a public comment from Ashley Gilbert who spoke in opposition to AB84
which introduces several changes that would significantly affect non-classroom-based
charter schools, which include many homeschool and personalized learning models.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no presentations from employee organizations.




04.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         1
3. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of February 18, 2025

Motion by Trustee Caigoy, second by Trustee Fong

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented by Trustee Fong, second
by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

On April 9, Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School held its Open House where a delicious
meal was served. They presented their new mural in the quad and 6th graders visited
helping them prepare for their next transition and promotion. Thank you, Deputy
Superintendent Herota and Assistant Superintendent Kast, and your team, for hosting
this well attended school event. And a special thanks to Trustees Caigoy and Keefer for
attending and supporting our Special Education program.

On April 12, SCOE and the School of Education hosted its annual Sacramento County
teacher and school leader career fair. 13 school districts, charter schools, and a few
neighboring districts outside of Sacramento County plus 160 job seekers attended. The
Sacramento City Unified School District offered jobs on the spot, resulting in the hiring
of six new teachers at this event.

The April 10th segment of California School News Radio, a statewide education podcast
hosted by VMA Communications focused on the equity work within SEL and School
Based Mental Health and Wellness underway at the Sacramento County Office of
Education. Associate Superintendent Malicote and Director Mai Xi Lee were featured
guests on the program. In addition to promoting SCOE’s work in the SEL and Wellness
space on air, this is a perfect time to note that our annual 2025 SEL & Wellness Summit,
also led by Associate Superintendent Malicote and Director Mai Xi Lee, will take place



04.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          2
on May 15 and 16. This year’s event will be at the SAFE Credit Union in Sacramento.
The 2025 Summit theme is Relationship-Centered Schools.

On April 16, we look forward to another graduation ceremony at El Centro Jr./Sr. High
School at 9:30 a.m.

In continued recognition and celebration of our 2025 Sacramento County Teachers of
the Year, we will be at the Sutter Health Ballpark for a River Cats game against the Salt
Lake City Bees on April 19 with the first pitch at 6:37 p.m. Doors open at 5:30 p.m.
Board members are welcome to attend.

On April 24 at 5:00 p.m., we look forward to a special graduation ceremony at our
Placer County Re-Entry program. The event will be held at the Health & Human
Services Center in Auburn.

On April 28, SCOE will host its State Seal of Biliteracy Recognition Ceremony at the
Cordova High School Performing Arts Center in Rancho Cordova. The program starts at
4:30 p.m. This is a celebration of student-wide achievement in multilingualism, which is
led by our Director of Multilingual Education, Graciela Garcia-Torres.

In preparation for this year’s federal advocacy trips, SCOE has met with some of our
local representatives to provide them with information on how the new Administration’s
executive orders will impact our educational system and our students. The California
School Boards Association (CSBA) and Association of School Administrators is holding
their Coast-to-Coast Federal Advocacy Trip in Washington, DC, from April 28 to 30,
2025. The event will provide California education leaders and decision-makers an
opportunity to meet with their representatives in Washington, DC. Board Vice President
Corona Sabeniano and Trustee Lefkovitz will be attending this important event.

On May 3 to 7, Superintendent Gordon plans to attend the 53rd Annual Cap-to-Cap
program, also in Washington, DC, and sponsored by the Sacramento Metropolitan
Chamber of Commerce with Board President Brown, and Trustees Lefkovitz and
Caigoy. During these events, all the delegates will learn critical insights from top policy
experts on the most pressing federal education issues and meet with federal leaders.

On April 30, in honor of the 15 Year Anniversary of the LINKS Mentoring program,
SCOE is hosting a celebration at 5:00 p.m. here in the Mather Room. The LINKS
Mentoring program offers support by providing staff and volunteers to facilitate
mentoring sessions with youth in SCOE programs and at the Juvenile Hall. Current and
past LINKS mentors who have devoted many hours to this effort will be honored.

Completing our countywide student award events for the school year, Craig Irish and his
team will host the California State History Day Awards at CSU Sacramento at 3:00 p.m.
on May 3 for the elementary school awards and at 9:30 a.m. on May 4 for the junior and
senior high school awards.




04.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                                3
B. SCOE 2025 Teacher of the Year - Xanthi Soriano

Executive Director Xanthi Soriano introduced the SCOE 2025 Teacher of the Year,
Heather Morehouse-Jack.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent White announced that one student from Elinor Lincoln Hickey
Senior Extension is scheduled to graduate and has completed all requirements for high
school graduation.

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. No Contracts

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Motion to approve by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

A. The Implementation Partnership, Phase I: Planning Grant for Mathematics - Dr.
Channa Pitt

10. New Business - Other

A. Adoption of Resolution No. 25-03 - Authorization for Temporary Interfund Transfer of
Funds - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve adoption of Resolution No. 25-03 - Authorization for Temporary
Interfund Transfer of Funds by Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.


04.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            4
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

B. Adoption of Resolution No. 25-04 - Resolution to Pay Absent Board Member - David
W. Gordon

Motion to approve Resolution No. 25-04 - Resolution to Pay Absent Board Member by
Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy
Abstain: Fong

C. Authorization for Out-of-State Travel for Trustee Attending the National Association of
Latino Elected Officials Annual Conference - David W. Gordon

Motion to approve by Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy
Abstain: Corona Sabeniano

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Fong stated that he attended a student focus group at our juvenile hall. He
reported that in addition to a desire for better quality food, the students said they like
their teachers and the librarian. Trustee Fong also commented that he thinks that
juvenile detention centers further traumatize youth and that a different approach is
needed. He commented that he attended many sessions while at the National School
Boards Association Annual Conference in Georgia including a session on the
characteristics of an effective board. Trustee Fong also reported that he participated in
the "hands off" march while visiting Atlanta, Georgia.

SCOE Appointed Student Board Member Representing Students Judith Marquez
thanked staff for their presentations tonight. She asked the Board members attending
the federal advocacy programs to highlight the need for substance abuse prevention
programs and that our homeless and foster youth are still in need of funding.

Trustee Caigoy thanked Assistant Superintendent Kast and Deputy Superintendent
Herota for the tour of Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School while attending the Open House. She
stated that she has questions around teacher preparation and placements at our Court
and Community Schools and requested a breakdown of what those misassignments are
and in which schools, what subjects, what grades, and who are the students that they're
serving. She commented on the disproportionate number of black students in our



04.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                               5
schools and especially our court schools. She stated that we serve a high population of
underserved students that come from communities that have been marginalized and
underserved for a long time. She said that she knows SCOE is doing a lot of great work
but asked what SCOE is doing to change the trajectory of our students. She said she
feels as though we are not getting to the point or addressing the things that may be at
the root of some of the issues that our students are dealing with. Trustee Caigoy cited
Miracle University as an innovative approach and wonders what innovative practices
SCOE is doing and how are we implementing those best practices within our schools.

Trustee Caigoy requests that resolutions come before the Board twice, once to allow for
ample discussion by the Board and the public, and edits if needed, and then at a
second meeting for adoption.

Trustee Caigoy requested a report on the LCAPs be brought to the Board and
questioned if SCOE could influence districts to look at their LCAPs more strategically
when it comes to the impact on students.

Regarding the Black Student Landscape Analysis, she requested an update on the
status and acknowledged that with the current political climate, there's some wording
changes that need to be addressed in the resolution but wants to ensure that the data
points used will still result in serving Black students, despite the political challenges that
are facing us. She reiterated her interest in Board collaboration on the resolution and
the opportunity for the public to weigh in.

Trustee Caigoy provided an update on the Financial Youth Summit that she co-chaired.
84 students were served from middle schools, high schools, and colleges, as well as
parents and guardians from across the county and as far as the Bay Area. 26 schools
within our County were represented.

Trustee Lefkovitz acknowledge the students and families that have made public
comments about Miracle University and about how some of our public schools are
failing them. She expressed an interest in hearing from SCOE staff about this model
(Miracle), and if it is working but the provider isn't the right provider, then we need to
replicate it ourselves. She is very interested in helping the kids that no one is paying
attention to.

Trustee Lefkovitz stated that she went to the recent CSBA conference and thought that
it was well done. The one session that really impacted her was about the Family and
Community Engagement program through the California Coalition for Educational
Excellence which is focused on working with various county offices around the state and
a bunch of school districts on how to authentically engage with community, how to
create vision, how to look at data, and how to come up with a plan to address
educational issues – all driven by community. The thing that really inspired her is the
San Diego County Office of Education, with the community, has created a North Star
which is a big audacious goal of reducing childhood poverty.




04.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                               6
Trustee Lefkovitz commented that the strategic plan for SCOE basically ended in 2019.
She continued, that through COVID, we've seen our kids struggle with learning and
experience a terrible learning loss, and we haven't caught up yet. There is high
absenteeism and a lot of mental health issues. She stated that she feels like the
educational landscape is changing, enrollment is declining and that it is time for our
Board to have a serious discussion about the future of education in our community and
how we are going to lead the community to address education over the next 10 years.
She commented that she thinks it's time for us to do some kind of big bold North Star
and address all these changes and make a statement to our community and to involve
our community.

Trustee Davis expressed agreement with Trustees Lefkovitz and Caigoy. She stated
concerns about the negative impact of social media and vaping on our youth and asked
how these important issues that are negatively impacting our youth can be addressed.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano attended the CSBA County Board Governance Workshop
last weekend and found the session on the budget very informative. She also asked for
more information about the partnership signed with CSU Sacramento, Los Rios
Community College, and Elk Grove Unified to create pathways for high school students
to go to college.

Superintendent Gordon explained that it was the dual enrollment data agreement that
was signed at CSU Sacramento two weeks ago. It is a data sharing agreement across
CSU, UC, and the districts. Elk Grove is the pilot district for the rest of the county.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano stated that she thinks it's a great partnership and looks
forward to seeing the results.

Trustee Keefer thanked the Palmiter staff for the Open House event last week and looks
forward to the graduation at El Centro tomorrow.

Trustee Keefer stated that there is a bill that counteracts AB 84. AB 84 was the topic of
one of tonight’s public comments. The other bill is SB 414 by Senator Ashby. Whereas
AB 84 is looking to demolish all independent study charter schools, SB 414 goes after
the root cause of what caused a couple of charter schools to become thieves.

Trustee Keefer commented about the seven students that were here tonight, in varying
parts of their life looking for some hope. Whether it's Miracle University or some other
mechanism, if there are 1,500 students on a waiting list that have nowhere to go, in his
view, they would make great county students because they have no affiliated district
that wants them. He stated that he thinks it would be important for us to let those
students know they're seen. They have potential for greatness and to be seen as
learners and not as individuals that don't have hope. He commented that this is a great
moment for our Board to coalesce around something with the revenues, the effort, and
the expertise that we have.




04.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                              7
He also stated that he thought the questions were very good for the LCAP. He asked
about the language acquisition and if families could be walked through it so they can
give us responses.

He also would like an avenue for the Board to have consensus on future Board agenda
items or Board initiatives so they could be agreed upon at the dais.

B. Board President

President Brown commented on Miracle University.

C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution

A. April Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. May 6, 2025 and May 20, 2025

14. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to Adjourn Meeting by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

The meeting adjourned at 9:40 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,



David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board
Date approved:




04.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          8
