Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.

Tuesday, October 11, 2022

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m. Other Board members
present: Bina Lefkovitz, Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Alfred Brown, and Harold Fong
(arrived at 6:55 p.m.).

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendent Nick Schweizer; Assistant Superintendents Jacqueline White and Brent
Malicote; Executive Directors Xanthi Soriano, Michael Kast, and Jerry Jones; Director
Shanine Coats; and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Davis lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Approval of Minutes

A. Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of September 6, 2022
by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Davis
Abstain: Trustee Brown
Not Present at Vote: Trustee Fong
Absent: Trustee Ahola

3. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to approve the adoption of agenda as presented by Trustee Lefkovitz, second
by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Davis,
Trustee Brown
Not Present at Vote: Trustee Fong
10.11.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                       1
Absent: Trustee Ahola

4. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

5. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

Sean Frame made a public comment as a follow up to previous public comments and
an email.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no requests from employee organizations.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

Week of the School Administrator
From October 9-15, SCOE will be celebrating the Week of the School Administrator and
recognizing all our school administrators for their commitment and dedication in serving
our students. Each administrator was mailed a note of appreciation from the
Superintendent.

NEW SUPERINTENDENT: San Juan Unified School District
On September 27, at the San Juan Unified Board of Education meeting, it was
announced by unanimous vote that current Deputy Superintendent of Schools and
Programs Melissa Bassanelli was selected as San Juan Unified’s next Superintendent
of Schools. She will assume the role starting January 1, 2023.

NEW EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: Communications
Superintendent Gordon welcomed Ms. Xanthi Soriano, SCOE's new Executive Director
of Communications. Xanthi has a unique perspective with experience in education and
the business world. She has been and remains committed to learning and has a deep
understanding of our region.

EDUCATION SERVICES UPDATE: Walk for Literacy
On October 1, teams from Curriculum and Instruction and Early Learning participated in
the 8th annual "Walk 4 Literacy" at Oak Park's McClatchy Park, which was co-hosted by
916 Ink and the Sacramento Literacy Foundation. Trustees Dr. Al Brown and Mariana
Corona Sabeniano joined the fun at the SCOE booth.

COURT AND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
On October 6, 916 Ink hosted their first Book Release party at El Centro. Each of our
Board Members will receive a copy of their news release tonight. On October 19, El
10.11.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          2
Centro will host the first monthly graduation ceremony scheduled for the 2022-2023
school year. El Centro graduations are scheduled based on number of graduates and
probation staff availability. Board Members are invited. On October 24, Community
Schools Learning Exchange will be hosting professional learning for Court and
Community School staff to provide valuable background about Community Schools
implementation as part of the Community Schools Planning Grant.

ENGLISH LEARNERS UPDATE: EL RISE! Cross-Departmental Team Meeting
On October 10, EL RISE! launched their first cross-departmental team meeting to begin
the implementation of the English Learner Roadmap multilingual/English learner
students. It was a gathering of approximately 15 SCOE Departments to maximize our
expertise to help the EL program.

FAMILY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT: Summit
On November 3, Family and Community Engagement (FACE) will host a summit
featuring speakers Hayin Kimner and Michael Serban. Superintendents, Board
Members, District Administrators, and other educational leaders are invited to attend
this interactive session where participants will learn about Family Empowerment
Centers and Community Schools and how to support equity-centered family
engagement using a whole-child approach, explore strategies from the Center for
Universal Education (CUE) Family-School Engagement Playbook, and collaborate to
transform how our systems serve students.

SLY PARK UPDATE
COVID-19 has had little impact on the program this fall with only a few confirmed cases,
which were quickly isolated to prevent any spread. Enrollment is near capacity and
scheduled to serve students from across Northern California, with the majority coming
from Sacramento County. Sly Park will offer a virtual science camp in the late Fall.
There are two open staff positions at Sly Park that our Personnel Department is working
to fill. To help ensure all visitors and staff have a great week at Sly Park, SCOE
leadership has been supporting the program by volunteering in the kitchen.

Lastly, several construction projects will be starting in mid-October with new slurring
of all asphalt hardscapes, a new deck on the administrative building, new roofs on
50% of the buildings on campus, and HVAC systems being installed in the dorms.
Some of the hiking trails impacted by the Caldor Fire in Summer 2021 will also be
repaired, and on a positive note, the results of the fire have added opportunities to
teach students about fire and forest ecology.

SPECIAL EDUCATION: Recruitment and Palmiter Café
Last month the Special Education Department held a recruitment job fair and continues
to see positive results from that event. We are in the process of bringing on board
several new para-educators to fill vacancies at program sites. At the end of this month,
on October 27, please be sure to join us at the Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High Culinary
Café where they will host their 2022-2023 school year opening.

ASSESSMENT UPDATE
On September 30, the Capital Regional Assessment Network (CRAN) convened a
10.11.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             3
hybrid meeting to discuss CAASPP, ELPAC, and PFT with more than 50 attendees in-
person and online. The meeting was highly productive and insightful.

B. Recognition of the November 2022 Employees of the Month

Ayah Abdulrazzaq, Staff Secretary, Prevention and Early Intervention, was recognized
and honored as the Classified Employee of the Month for November.

Johanna Gorski, Language Speech and Hearing Therapist, was recognized and
honored as the Certificated Employee of the Month for November.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown
Absent: Trustee Ahola

By approval of the consent agenda, the following items were approved:

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. No Diplomas - Jacqueline White/Michael Kast

D. Approval of the 2022-2023 Consolidated Application Part 1 for Funding Categorical
Aid Programs for Juvenile Court and Community Schools – Jacqueline White

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. No Contracts

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

A. No Grant Applications/Service Contracts

10. New Business – Other

A. Approval of the 2021-2022 Budget Revision No. 4 - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer presented this item.

Motion to approve the 2021-2022 Budget Revision No. 4 by Trustee Davis, second by
Trustee Fong.
10.11.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         4
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown
Absent: Trustee Ahola

B. Approval of the 2021-2022 Unaudited Actuals Financial Report - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Schweizer presented this item.

Motion to approve the 2021-2022 Unaudited Actuals Financial Report by Trustee
Brown, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown
Absent: Trustee Ahola

C. Notice of Public Hearing and Adoption of Resolution No. 22-17 - Establishing the
2022-2023 Appropriations Limit - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Schweizer presented this item.

President Keefer opened the public hearing at 7:21 p.m.

There were no public comments.

The public hearing was closed at 7:22 p.m.

Motion to adopt Resolution No. 22-17 - Establishing the 2022-2023 Appropriations Limit
by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown
Absent: Trustee Ahola

D. Combined Board Report: Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion and AVID; DEI Updates and
Closing the Opportunity Gap - Program Highlight: AVID

Assistant Superintendent Brent Malicote introduced the Board report which was
presented by Executive Directors Kristin Wright and Channa Cook, and Director Lindsay
Paoli.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members



10.11.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        5
Trustee Brown highly recommends the book Unstoppable: The Unlikely Story of a
Silicon Valley Godfather by Roy Clay. He reported that, on October 4, he attended the
launch of the FACE Mobile Resource Unit at Greer Elementary that is providing support
to families. He also stated that he is the president of the Rancho Murietta Kiwanis.

Trustee Lefkovitz read a land statement in honor of National Indigenous Peoples Day
which was October 10, 2022. She also stated that today is National Coming Out Day
and National Ally Week. Trustee Lefkovitz explained that one of the reasons she wears
her LGBTQ pin is to show young people that she is an ally. She stated that she feels
strongly about transparency and responsiveness to constituents in the community and
requested clarification about the Board’s role and ability to respond to off-agenda items.

President Keefer suggested that General Counsel Teresa Stinson can provide clarity
about the inquiry from Ms. Lefkovitz.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano stated that she and Trustee Brown attended the Walk 4
Literacy on October 1 and thanked SCOE staff for volunteering. She thanked SCOE
volunteers: Becky Sullivan, Kou Vang, Christine Anderson, Julie Montali, Christine
Smith, Stacy Sewell Rowe, and Carolyn Smitley. She also acknowledged that she also
came prepared to share about National Indigenous Peoples Day and was pleased that
Trustee Lefkovitz honored it by sharing the land acknowledgement. She noted that
October is Filipino American Heritage Month. She also attended the 2022 California
Student Mock Election today at Palmiter and thanked the principal for remembering that
she was interested in attending.

Trustee Brown shared some photos from the Walk 4 Literacy of youth receiving books
and commented how excited they were to receive them.

Trustee Davis acknowledged how much work this group of people, referencing the
individuals in the room, accomplishes and told everyone they should be proud of the
work that is getting done. She is taking her notary exam tomorrow. She is thankful for
their leadership and appreciates them.

Trustee Fong complimented Trustee Davis on the important things that she is doing. He
asked that SCOE look into installing solar panels on school buildings and accessing
Federal money to do so. He suggested that it may cut energy expenses and help SCOE
to be more environmentally conscious.

B. Board President

C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution

A. October/November Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

10.11.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           6
A. October 25, 2022 and November 15, 2022

14. Adjournment

A. Motion to adjourn the meeting in memory of SCOE Employee Raycheal Fernandes
by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown
Absent: Trustee Ahola

Meeting adjourned at 8:44 p.m.




10.11.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                    7
