Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 4:30 p.m.
Tuesday, June 28, 2022

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

B. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Talamantes called the meeting to order at 4:37 p.m. Other Board members
present: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, and Alfred Brown.
Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendent Nick Schweizer; Assistant Superintendents Jacqueline White and Brent
Malicote; Executive Directors Michael Kast, Jerry Jones, and Channa Cook-Harvey; and
Directors Tami Wilson and Tim Herrera.

C. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Brown lead the pledge.

President Talamantes announced that the Board will recess the meeting and the Board
will convene in Closed Session, Under Government Code Section 54957(b)(1), the
Board will meet in Closed Session regarding the Superintendent's Evaluation. The
Board has provided public notice that the Board will meet in Closed Session for this
purpose.

Recessed Open Session at 4:39 p.m.

Convened Closed Session at 4:46 p.m.

Adjourned Closed Session 6:13 p.m.

The Board reconvened Open Regular Session at 6:34 p.m.

During Open Session, President Talamantes announced that the Board took action in
Closed Session to extend Superintendent Gordon's contract through June 30, 2026, by
the following vote: 6 ayes, 0 noes, 1 absent, 0 abstentions.

For purposes of public disclosure: Under the provisions of the Superintendent's existing
contract, the Superintendent receives the same salary increase as SCOE bargaining
units and managers, which will be 2% as of July 1, 2022. In addition, President
Talamantes is recommending that Superintendent Gordon’s contract be amended to
remove the fringe benefit of a paid term life insurance policy and instead to increase the
annual contribution to the Superintendent’s deferred compensation plan by $2,000. This
benefit change will be an even exchange and will not increase the total cost of the fringe
benefits.

President Talamantes entertained a motion to ratify the extension of the
Superintendent's Contract and to approve the proposed Contract amendments just
summarized.

Trustee Brown moved, and Trustee Keefer seconded the motion to extend
Superintendent's Employment Contract through June 30, 2026 and to approve the
proposed amendments to the Superintendent’s Contract.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown

2. Approval of Minutes

A. Motion by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Fong to approve the Minutes of the
Regular Board Meetings of April 12, 2022 and April 19, 2022

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown

B. Motion by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Davis to approve the Minutes of the
Regular Board Meeting of May 3, 2022

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee
Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown
Abstain: Trustee Karina Talamantes

3. Adoption of Agenda

Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented by Trustee Brown, second
by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown

4. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.
5. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

There were no public comments.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no requests from employee organizations.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

COURT AND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
Summer school is in full swing with over 400 students participating. A diverse team is
meeting and planning a yearlong Professional Learning series of workshops as a follow-
up to the summer PD days. The planning team includes our Ed Tech Coordinator, Arts
Integration Coordinator, Science Curriculum Specialist, ELD and Multilingual Support
Program Specialist, College and Career Readiness Coordinator, DEI Coordinator,
Mental Health Coordinator, and History-Social Science Curriculum Specialist.

SPECIAL EDUCATION
Extended School Year (ESY) will continue through July 8 at 13 program sites. Plans are
underway for hosting joint Professional Development Days with Court & Community
Schools July 25-28.

DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION WORK
The Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion (DEI) Team has developed a new “Growth Track”
series that will launch next month that will allow participation and learning through
multiple modalities and access points such as books, film, audios, and guest speakers.
A new “Elevating Diverse Voices” will be launched this fall bringing in authors, local
leaders, artists, and activists across many diversities and identities to the region. This
will be offered across the entire geographic region. This summer, the DEI team is
partnering with the Social Emotional Learning (SEL) and SCOE Wellness clinician
teams to offer professional learning to SCOE school staff to draw connection between
SEL/wellness and DEI.

SLY PARK UPDATE
We had a strong finish to the traditional school year as the Sly Park staff continued to
show collaboration and teamwork to create incredible experiences for young people
from area schools. We are now into the Summer Camp portion of our year. We are in
the midst of our three-week Basketball Camp and Director Steve Williams shares his
deep appreciation for the facility improvements and the Sly Park staff.

USA LEARNS
USA Learns, an online interactive English language learning site created by SCOE, now
offers a new course to help English learning immigrants and refugees successfully
integrate into the United States. The course is called Access America. It is a FREE
course with information aligned with the stages of immigrant integration. Access
America helps learners access available community resources and teaches how
families can communicate with their schools, find housing and employment, obtain
medical care, interact with the local community, and much more. Most of the videos
were produced right here at SCOE and feature some of our employees as actors. The
new course was recently featured by Univision during one of their evening newscasts.
Great work by Andrea Willis and our Internet and Media Services Team!

SUMMER OF CS
Our College and Career Readiness team recently kicked off their 4th annual Summer of
CS – or Computer Science, a professional learning program for K-12 teachers,
administrators, and counselors statewide. With both virtual and in-person sessions,
nearly 250 educators throughout the state learned how to code, teach data science
concepts, and build equity-oriented pathways in schools and districts. This year, our
staff worked with 10 other county offices in California to deliver the Summer of CS
workshops as a hybrid experience. Great work by our College and Career Readiness
team in supporting students in Sacramento County and throughout the state!

CSBA CONFERENCE
This is another reminder that registration for the CSBA Annual Education Conference
and Trade Show is open. The conference is scheduled for December 1 – 3, 2022 in San
Diego. If you are interested in attending, please contact Wende Watson.

BUDGET UPDATE
Over the weekend the Governor and the Legislature reached an agreement on the state
budget for 2022-2023. Details are still emerging, and negotiations may be continuing on
some components. It is a very generous budget to education. We plan to do a review of
the budget at our July 12 meeting.

LEGISLATIVE UPDATE
Congress has passed the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act which includes narrow
restrictions on firearm ownership. The legislation is designed to keep guns out of the
hands of people experiencing mental health crises and provides about $13 billion in new
spending for programs like mental health and school safety. Here are some highlights
included in this package:

   •   School Based Mental Health Services and Staff: Provides $500 million
       nationwide through the School Based Mental Health Services Grant Program.

   •   Training and Pipeline Development for School Based Mental Health Staff:
       Provides $500 million in funding to the School Based Mental Health Service
       Professionals Demonstration Grant. This money will help train and diversify the
       pipeline of school counselors, school social workers, and school psychologists.
   •   Improving Conditions for Student Learning: Provides $1 billion in funding through
       Title IV-A to support a variety of activities to improve conditions for student
       learning, including developing positive school climates through evidence- based
       practices.

   •   Out of School Programs: Provides $50 million in funding to the 21st Century
       Community Learning Centers program, which funds extracurricular, after-school
       and summer programs, with a focus of new funding to target programs for older
       youth.

   •   School Safety: Provides $300 million in funding through the STOP School
       Violence Act to institute safety measures in and around schools.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda

Motion to adopt Consent Agenda by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown

By approval of the consent agenda, the following items were approved:

B. Accept Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students – Jacqueline White
Assistant Superintendent

Jacqueline White announced that the following students will be awarded a diploma: one
candidate from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School; one candidate from El Centro
Jr./Sr. High School; one candidate from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension; and five
candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

D. Approval of the School Plans for Student Achievement (SPSA) - Juvenile Court and
Community Schools - Jacqueline White

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Motion to Approve by Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown

A. Universal Prekindergarten Planning and Implementation Grant (UPK) - Brent
Malicote

B. Friday Night Live/Club Live/Friday Night Live Mentoring Programs Grant - Brent
Malicote

C. Mental Health Services Act Bullying Prevention, Youth Mental Health First Aid and
Question, Persuade, Refer for Suicide Prevention Projects Grant - Brent Malicote

D. Early Education Teacher Development (EETD) Grant - Brent Malicote

E. Pedestrian and Bicycle Safety Program Grant - Brent Malicote

F. Prevention Coalition Grant - Brent Malicote

G. Foster Youth Services Coordinating Program/Child Protective Services (CPS)
Collaborative Project Grant - Brent Malicote

H. Foster Youth Services Coordinating Program Technical Assistance Provider Grant -
Brent Malicote

I. County Technical Assistance Grant - Brent Malicote

J. California Community Schools Partnership Program Planning Grant - Jacqueline
White

K. Educator Workforce Investment Computer Science Grant - Jacqueline White

L. Safe Zone Squad Grant - Brent Malicote

M. Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSAA)
Friday Night Live (FNL) Grant - Brent Malicote
N. American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) Friday Night Live (FNL) Grant - Brent Malicote

O. Science Technology, Engineering, Art, and Mathematics (STEAM) Hub for Expanded
Learning Grant, Year 9 - Brent Malicote

P. California Student Opportunity and Access Program (Cal-SOAP) Grant - Brent
Malicote

Q. CA Student Aid Commission Capital Area Cash for College, Regional Coordinating
Organization Grant - Brent Malicote

10. New Business – Other

A. Motion to adopt the 2022-2023 Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP) by
Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown

B. Motion to adopt the 2022-2023 Budget by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown


C. Motion to approve the 2021-2022 Budget Revision No. 3 by Trustee Fong, second by
Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown

D. Motion to approve Use of Proposition 30, the Schools and Local Public Safety
Protection Act of 2012, in Substitution of Regular Revenue Limit Apportionments by
Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown

E. 2022 Annual Report: Summary of Support (LCAP & Differentiated Assistance)

Dr. Channa Cook-Harvey presented this report.
F. Universal Pre-kindergarten - SCOE Countywide Support for LEAs - Brent Malicote

Dr. Herota presented this item.

G. Board Report - California Dyslexia Initiative - Dr. Channa Cook-Harvey

Dr. Channa Cook-Harvey introduced Tami Wilson, Director in Curriculum and
Instruction Department. Ms. Wilson is the project lead on the California Dyslexia
Initiative and created this presentation.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Superintendent Gordon announced Communication Director Tim Herrera's retirement
and thanked him for his service to SCOE. Board members expressed their appreciation
for Tim and how his service has impacted them personally and professionally. Mr.
Herrera thanked the Board for their kind words.

Trustee Brown announced that he is the president of the Rancho Murietta Kiwanis for
2022-2023. He recently met Ian Book from Oakridge High School who now plays
football for the New Orleans Saints. He also just met Tony "the tiger" Lopez.

Trustee Lefkovitz congratulated Tim on his retirement. Trustee Lefkovitz said that the
word positivity comes to mind when she thinks of President Talamantes. It comes out
when she smiles and interacts with others. She sees her as a very mature, insightful
young person. She was very supportive during campaigning and knows that she will be
a great city council member and that she will be a voice for young people. She hopes
that they can continue to work together.


Trustee Brown wished Karina good luck and commented that she has been an
inspiration on the Board.

Vice President Keefer commented about how Trustee Lefkovitz talks about how people
don't know what SCOE does, and it is because what we do is so complex. He stated
that Karina's story and her conviction and ability to listen, her fortitude, and strength will
make her a great city council person. He expressed that her courage and truth will serve
the city council well.

Trustee Davis went to training at Juvenile Hall. As for Karina, she said that she agrees
with what Trustee Keefer said about her. It is empowering to women to see someone go
after what they want. She loves Karina's story. It is enlightening and encouraging, and
she appreciates her positivity. She stated that in this job we don't always agree, but that
is ok.
Trustee Fong thanked Tim for being the emcee at the Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High
School opening. He is glad that Karina took the opportunity to run for city council and
wishes her all the best.

Superintendent Gordon mentioned that Karina is the 16th Board member that has
passed through during his superintendency and one of Dave's favorites because firstly,
you are such a passionate advocate for public education from preschool, Head Start,
and all the way through UC Davis. You model what the system can and should be for all
young people, and that is why he is a fan of AVID because that got you there, and once
you got there, you took off. That part of your story is so inspirational to our young
people. Secondly, Karina gives him great hope for the future because the three most
powerful emotions turn out to be love, fear, and hope. She brings hope to everyone she
touches. Most of all her caring spirit and personality are infectious. Such a wonderful
positive person.

Trustee Keefer presented a recognition plaque to Karina for her service on the Board.

Trustee Talamantes expressed her appreciation for the opportunity to serve. She
thanked her colleagues for letting her be president this year and for their support.
Government can work if you make it work. We have to make it work for everyone. That
is why she ran for City Council. We need to have transportation, success at home,
housing, food, and she wants every child to have opportunities to succeed regardless of
their zip code. Four years have gone by, and we've been through a global epidemic
together. She really does have hope in the future. She hopes Mariana will continue the
legacy of serving Area 2. She expressed specific appreciation to each Board member
and Superintendent Gordon.

B. Board President

See above.

C. There were no Committee reports.

12. Items for Distribution

A. June/July Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. July 12, 2022
B. August 9, 2022

14. Adjourn the Meeting

A. Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown

Meeting adjourned at 8:39 p.m.

Respectfully Submitted,


Date approved:
