Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
Friday, April 7, 2023 at 12:30 pm.

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the regular meeting to order at 12:33 p.m. Other Board
members present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Bina Lefkovitz, Joanne Ahola, and
Alfred Brown. Trustee Heather Davis arrived at 12:36 p.m. Trustee Harold Fong was
absent.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota; Associate General Counsel Elizabeth Linton;
Associate Superintendent Nick Schweizer; Assistant Superintendents Brent Malicote
and Jacqueline White; Executive Directors Michael Kast and Jerry Jones; and Executive
Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

There was one Public Comment: April Javist, Executive Director of Sacramento Literacy
Foundation, spoke about one of the agency’s goals, which is to have diverse evidence-
based curriculum in K – 2nd Grade classrooms.

B. Employee Organizations

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Motion by Trustee Brown to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of
February 21, 2023, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Absent: Trustee Fong



04.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                      1
4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion by Trustee Ahola to approve the adoption of the agenda as presented,
second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Absent: Trustee Fong

5. Official Correspondence

A. No Official Correspondence.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

EDUCATORS/STUDENTS COUNTYWIDE
In late March, our SCOE teams hosted outstanding professional learning and resource
events for students and educators. We brought together more than 180 counselors at
the Counselor Spring Institute at California State University, Sacramento (CSUS)
where the focus was on supporting the whole child and how to bring about collective
action. Partners from all four Los Rios Community Colleges, CSUS, and UC Davis;
nationally recognized school counseling consultants from Hatching Results; and more
than 20 local nonprofits were partners in the event.

At the Health Education and Career (HEC) Conference we supported foster and youth
experiencing homelessness throughout the region by providing them and their mentors
with access to resources, opportunities, and the inspiration they need to believe in
themselves.

More than 200 educational professionals attended our Fifth Annual Sacramento County
Prevention Summit where they gathered to gain valuable information and idea sharing
to support students.

SCOE SCHOOLS
Last week, we attended a very moving graduation ceremony at El Centro. We had our
first graduate obtain their Associate of Arts degree from Lake Tahoe Community
College (LTCC). We were joined by the LTCC President Jeff De Franco; Director of the
Rising Scholars Program Shane Reynolds; Chief of Probation Marlon Yarber; and a
large contingency from LTCC who supported our student. The graduate has been
accepted into Sacramento State University and will be given housing when he exits El
Centro as part of the Project Rebound Program. This student’s success highlights how
multiple partnerships are making an extraordinary difference for our students.

Last week students participated in the “Bite of Reality” Fair at Elinor Lincoln Hickey and



04.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                               2
Nathaniel S. Colley Jr./Sr. High Schools. This partnership with SAFE Credit Union
allows students to learn about building credit and financial literacy through an interactive
simulation. All students in El Centro will have access to this simulation next week.

Next week our students will paint a student-designed mural with artist Milton Bowens at
Elinor Lincoln Hickey Jr./Sr. and Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School. If you want to put
on your painting clothes or just observe, please let Wende know today.

TEAM SCOE
On March 22, more than 50 members of SCOE’s Management Team attended a
Franklin-Covey professional development seminar which enhanced their management
and leadership skills.

Lastly, attendance at Team Time and Learn@Lunch events has increased, which is a
testament to our desire to create opportunities that are inclusive where we can share
and learn about one another.

UPCOMING EVENTS
On April 16, we will address the hundreds of students and parents who are participating
in this year’s State History Day event at CSUS. Thank you to Craig Irish and everyone
who has helped him run this special and unique statewide event.

On April 17, Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School is hosting an Open House from 5:30-
7:00 p.m.

On April 19, we look forward to another graduation ceremony for El Centro Jr./Sr. High
School students and on April 23 SCOE and SchoolsFirst have teamed up to recognize
our 2023 Teachers of the Year at a River Cats game.

On May 3, Graciela Garcia-Torres and her team will be hosting the State Seal of
Biliteracy event to recognize hundreds of students from across the county who have
completed the requirements to receive the seal. This event will take place in-person at
the Natomas High School Theater. Virtual access will also be available.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Lefkovitz to adopt the Consent Agenda, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Absent: Trustee Fong

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson




04.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             3
C. No Diplomas

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. No Contracts

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Motion to approve Items 9A, 9B, 9C, 9D, and 9F by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee
Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Absent: Trustee Fong

Motion to approve Item 9E by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown
Abstain: Trustee Ahola
Absent: Trustee Fong

A. 21st Century California School Leadership Academy - Dr. Nancy Herota

B. High Road Training Partnership (HRTP), Resilient Workforce Program (RWP) -
Shanine Coats

C. Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) Comprehensive Support and Improvement Plan
Development Implementation and Support County Office of Education Grant (CSI-D)-
Brent Malicote

D. Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) Comprehensive Support and Improvement Plan
Approval County Office of Education Grant (CSI-P) - Brent Malicote

E. Expanded Learning Opportunities Program (ELO-P) Technical Assistance
Grant/System of Support for Expanded Learning Grant - Brent Malicote

F. Million Girls Moonshot: California Innovator Science, Technology, Engineering, Art,
and Math (STEAM) Hub Grant - Brent Malicote

10. New Business - Other




04.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           4
A. Adoption of Resolution No. 23-02 - Authorization for Temporary Interfund Transfer of
Funds - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion by Trustee Davis to adopt Resolution No. 23-02 - Authorization for Temporary
Interfund Transfer of Funds, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Absent: Trustee Fong

B. Literacy Initiative - Brent Malicote

Assistant Superintendent Brent Malicote introduced the Literacy Initiative Board report
which was presented by Directors Becky Sullivan and Tami Wilson.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola - no report.

Trustee Brown - no report.

Trustee Lefkovitz inquired if the Board/SCOE is interested in supporting AB1520 Pupil
instruction: State Seal of Civic Engagement Resource Lead. Trustee Lefkovitz thanked
Superintendent Gordon for hosting a table at the NAACP Breakfast this morning and
stated that she enjoyed being out in the community together. She distributed a flyer
about the March for Black Student Equity on April 11 and shared her plans to attend.
She stated that National Trans Visibility Day was March 31 and that LGBTQ kids have
the highest rates of suicide of young people. She commented that Sac City adopted a
resolution to support trans students which included a number of policy implications and
would like to share that with the Superintendent and the Board to see if we want to
make any public statement during Pride Week. She also asked if any Board members
or staff are interested in marching together in the parade during Pride Weekend on June
10 and11. If so, she would be glad to coordinate. Trustee Lefkovitz also offered to
organize a field trip to the Gender Health Center or PFLAG for anyone who is
interested.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano informed the Board that she attended the California
Association for Bilingual Education (CABE) Conference in Long Beach where she
learned about the Seal of Biliteracy. She stated that there seems to be a higher
standard for English learners to meet proficiency and achieve the Seal. She wondered if
the Board/SCOE is interested in supporting AB370 Pupil instruction: State Seal of
Biliteracy.




04.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            5
Trustee Davis stated that she is pleased and encouraged by the El Centro student’s
graduations and wishes she could have attended.

B. Board President

President Keefer stated that he is glad that Trustee Lefkovitz made it home safely. He
also expressed appreciation for his colleagues and wishes for a Happy Easter.
President Keefer read a poem by an El Centro Student from Letters to My Past and
Future Self.

C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution

A. April/May Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. April 18, 2023 and May 2, 2023

14. Adjournment

A. Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Absent: Trustee Fong

The meeting adjourned at 2:15 p.m.




04.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           6
