Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda ***REVISED***
Tuesday, September 16, 2025

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

Vice President Keefer called the regular meeting to order at 6:33 p.m. Other Board
members present in person: Alfred Brown, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Vanessa
Caigoy, Bina Lefkovitz, and Mariana Corona Sabeniano (arrived at 7:21 p.m.). Youth
County Board Member Nairobi Dunbar was present.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Dr.
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendents Nicolas Schweizer and Brent Malicote, Assistant Superintendents
Jacqueline “Jackie” White, Navdeep Purewal, and Michael Kast; Executive Director
Jerry Jones; and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Davis led the Pledge of Allegiance.

E. Land Acknowledgement

Vice President Keefer read a Land Acknowledgement.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

There were no public comments.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no presentations from employee organizations.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of July 15, 2025




09.16.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                       1
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of July 15, 2025 by
Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Caigoy, Brown
Not Present at Vote: Corona Sabeniano

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Adoption of Agenda

Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented by Trustee Caigoy, second
by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Caigoy, Brown
Not Present at Vote: Corona Sabeniano

5. Official Correspondence

A. Official Correspondence

There was no official correspondence.

6. Youth Report

A. AVID Youth Fellow - Brent Malicote

Associate Superintendent Brent Malicote introduced the video from Basma Al Qaderi,
the AVID Youth Fellow.

7. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

September brings a focus on school attendance and literacy. It is also a time to
celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month, mark Constitution Day, and remind students of their
civic duty through High School Voter Education Week.

These themes come to life in events across our schools, such as during Leo A. Palmiter
Jr./Sr. High School’s Back to School Night held last week. Palmiter Culinary Arts
students welcomed families with a meal of chicken enchiladas, Caesar salad, chips,
guacamole, and warm brownies to honor Hispanic Heritage Month. Thank you, Trustee




09.16.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        2
Lefkovitz for attending. Families visited classrooms, gardens, and the orchard, seeing
firsthand how students grow and learn in these unique spaces.

On September 13, 2025, at two different literacy events, SCOE staff kicked-off literacy
month with book giveaways, sign-ups to the Dolly Parton Imagination Library program,
and provided information and resources to children, students, and families. Trustee
Caigoy spoke at the Latino Book and Family Festival. Thank you also to Trustee
Lefkovitz for attending this event. Trustees Brown and Caigoy were also present at the
Sac BlackLit Book Fest in Oak Park on the same day.

On September 20, 2025, from 10:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., SCOE will join the Literacy
Corner at the One Natomas Farmers Market at North Natomas Regional Park.
Sacramento County READS and our Early Learning Department will provide free books,
Imagination Library sign-ups, early literacy activities, and information about Help Me
Grow and Early Head Start.

On September 24, 2025, SCOE representatives will participate in the Shingle Springs
Tribal TANF Back to School Night at the Sacramento TANF Office in Sacramento. The
Shingle Springs Tribal TANF Program provides assistance to eligible Native American/
Alaska Native families in Sacramento, Yolo, El Dorado, and Placer counties. Our staff
will be present to share family resources, information about CalSOAP and AVID, and
connect directly with youth and families.

On September 25, 2025, SCOE will present Sacramento County READS at the
Sacramento Public Library Board meeting. The presentation will highlight SCOE’s
partnership with library staff to promote literacy, with Friends of the Library and
community members.

On September 27, 2025, SCOE will be a sponsor of the Sacramento Literacy Festival at
the Oak Park Farmers Market. President Corona Sabeniano is scheduled to speak at
this event. We will provide family resources, distribute free books, and recruit for open
staff positions. Early Learning will support Sacramento County READS with Imagination
Library sign-ups, early literacy activities, Help Me Grow, and Early Head Start
resources.

At our SCOE schools, Palmiter's Culinary Café opens for business on October 3, 2025,
with a spectacular meal: Cornish Game Hen served with fresh green beans, and
pistachio monkey bread for dessert.

On October 4, 2025, we will recognize both our 2025 Sacramento County Classified
School Employees of the Year (CSEY) and our 2026 Teachers of the Year (TOY) at the
Sac Republic FC match. That evening, Republic FC, SchoolsFirst Federal Credit Union,
and SCOE will honor the 2025 CSEY and 2026 TOY recipients at Heart Health Park.

On October 15, 2025, our Career Pipeline program will host a Peer-to-Peer Mentorship
Conference at Sacramento State’s Alumni Center. The conference will feature



09.16.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            3
presentations from Elk Grove Unified and San Juan Unified school districts, with Marcus
Strother from Mentor California serving as emcee. We expect about 150 participants,
including many high school students.

Sacramento State’s College of Education has named SCOE Curriculum Specialist
Christine Anderson from our English Language Arts and K-12 Curriculum and
Instruction team as its 2025 County Office of Education Partner of the Year. This
recognition highlights Christine’s outstanding achievements and contributions to
advancing education and partnership in the region. She will be honored at the Stronger
Together Award Reception, an invitation-only event celebrating the joint work of
preparing educators, hosted by Sacramento State College of Education.

8. New Business - Charter School

A. ***REVISED*** NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING and Action on Proposed Material
   Revisions to Capital College & Career Academy (CCCA) Charter School Petition and
   CCCA Status Update - Dr. Nancy Herota

Deputy Superintendent Dr. Herota introduced the CCCA Charter School agenda item,
which included a report from CCCA Executive Director Kevin Dobson, SCOE Associate
Superintendent Nick Schweizer, and herself.

A Public Comment was received (via Zoom) from Dr. Gina Warren from Neighborhood
Wellness Foundation in support of the CCCA.

Rob Fong, Consultant for the MEP Career Pathway Academies Non-profit, spoke about
a "Building Trades grant,” the establishment of an MEP (Mechanical Electric Plumbing)
non-profit, and other potential funding.

Neildon Jncharles, Senior Field Representative, NorCal Carpenters Union, and CCCA
Board Member, spoke in support of CCCA.

Associate Superintendent Nick Schweizer provided SCOE's Fiscal Update for 2025-
2026 for CCCA.

Public Hearing opened at 7:27 p.m.

No additional public comments were received during the public hearing.

Public Hearing closed at 7:28 p.m.

Deputy Superintendent Dr. Herota stated SCOE's recommendations in regard to the
material revision request. SCOE is recommending that CCCA’s request to materially
revise the actual and projected enrollment not be approved until CCCA provides
sufficient documentation to demonstrate that it can remain financially solvent throughout
the 2025-2026 school year. Revised Resolution No. 25-13 would approve certain



09.16.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           4
material revisions, while requiring CCCA to provide sufficient documentation within 30
days before its enrollment projections are approved.

Trustee Brown moved to approve the original Resolution No. 25-13 Approving Material
Revisions to Capital College and Career Academy Charter School Petition and require
CCCA to provide sufficient documentation within 30 days to substantiate the budget and
demonstrate that it can remain financially solvent throughout the 2025-2026 school
year. Trustee Lefkovitz seconded the motion.

Trustee Caigoy requested that Trustee Brown revise his motion to require CCCA to
provide documentation that verifies the grants so that SCOE staff can review it and
bring it back to the November 18, 2025 Board meeting for the Board’s consideration
before making a determination about the material revision. The request was denied.

Trustee Fong offered a substitute motion to approve the Revised Resolution which
would approve certain material revisions but not approve material revisions to CCCA’s
actual and projected enrollment until CCCA provides sufficient documentation to
demonstrate that it can remain financially solvent throughout the 2025-2026 school
year. There was no second.

There was a vote on the motion made by Trustee Brown to approve the original
Resolution No. 25-13 Approving the Material Revisions to Capital College and Career
Academy Charter School Petition and require CCCA to provide sufficient documentation
within 30 days to substantiate the budget and demonstrate that it can remain financially
solvent throughout the 2025-2026 school year; seconded by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Brown
No: Keefer, Fong, Caigoy
Preferential Vote: Dunbar abstained.

9. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White/
Michael Kast




09.16.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           5
Assistant Superintendent Jackie White announced that three students are scheduled to
graduate from each of their respective schools and they have completed all
requirements for high school graduation including two candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr.
High School and one candidate from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension.

D. Proposition 28 - Arts and Music in Schools Annual Report - Jacqueline White

10. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. No Contracts

11. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget -
David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Caigoy, second by Trustee Keefer.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown

A. State Implementation Partnership: Math High-Quality Instructional Materials
Implementation Support Grant - Dr. Nancy Herota

12. New Business - Other

A. Board Report - AVID - Brent Malicote

Associate Superintendent Brent Malicote introduced AVID Director Lindsay Paoli who
presented the AVID Board report.

13. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Member Suggestions on Future Agenda Items ("Idea Log")

Trustee Caigoy requested copies of all charter MOUs and that a site visit to North Area
School be scheduled.

Trustee Lefkovitz requested written responses to questions about the arts plan, inquired
if SCOE is applying for the new high school redesign grant for our Community Schools,
and requested to visit the Youth Advisory Committee in October or November.

Trustee Keefer requests that SCOE works with CCCA to develop a 2-year budget to
demonstrate the feasibility of the school with a soft and a hard goal; and what an exit
plan would look like if needed.

B. Board Members



09.16.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            6
Trustee Caigoy stated that she met civil rights activist Dolores Huerta who was pivotal in
ensuring that farm workers had safe working conditions and that they received the
wages that they deserved.

Trustee Brown reported that he visited the Compton High School remodel stating that it
is an excellent school which is supported by Serena Williams, Doctor Dre, and other
celebrities. He also stated that a long-time friend, Rev. Thomas Earl Jordan, passed
today; noting that they went through the civil rights movement together and that they
were high school classmates. He was baptized by Dr. Martin Luther King, attended
Morehouse College, and came back to Montgomery where he was a preacher for over
50 years.

Trustee Lefkovitz stated that she also saw Dolores Huerta who is 95 years old and that
she was amazing. She also handed out a flyer to highlight upcoming ACCBE trainings,
including the Court and Community Schools deep dive. She mentioned that there is a
student board member training scheduled and encouraged Youth County Board
Member Dunbar to attend. She also shared a White Paper entitled, "An aspirational
vision for California education.”

Trustee Keefer thanked the staff for their presentations and all the work conducted
related to the charter.

Trustee Davis stated that she appreciated the deep dive into the transportation issue
that was written by Assistant Superintendent White and wanted to honor and recognize
the difficult conversations had at tonight’s meeting.

Youth County Board Member Dunbar expressed her appreciation for today's meeting.

Trustee Fong – no report.

C. Board President

Board President Corona Sabeniano reported that she attended the CSBA’s County
Board Conference in Monterey and highlighted a session during which Tuolumne
County presented on their efforts to improve dental hygiene for students by bringing
dental hygienists into the districts and their court school. She stated that she found this
interesting and that it might be a way we can better support our students that are in
juvenile hall.

D. Committees

14. Items for Distribution

A. September Events and Site Visits

15. Schedule of Future Board Meetings



09.16.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                                7
A. September 20, 2025 SCOE Board/Superintendent Retreat at 1:00 p.m.

B. October 7, 2025 Regular Board Meeting at 6:30 p.m.

16. Adjournment

A. Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown

The meeting was adjourned at 9:25 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,



David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




09.16.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                 8
