Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda ***REVISION #2***
Tuesday, October 17, 2023 - 6:30 p.m.

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Lefkovitz called the regular meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.

Other Board members present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Alfred Brown, Harold Fong
(via Zoom), and Heather Davis. Absent: Joanne Ahola and Paul Keefer.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Acting
General Counsel Elizabeth Linton; Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer;
Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White; Executive Directors Michael Kast, Xanthi
Soriano, and Jerry Jones; Director Shanine Coats, and Executive Assistant Wende
Watson.

After calling the meeting to order and roll call, President Lefkovitz stated that Trustee
Fong has requested to appear at this meeting remotely due to emergency
circumstances, which prevent him from attending in person. The Brown Act requires the
Board to take action to approve a remote-appearance request based on emergency
circumstances. She then requested a motion to allow Trustee Fong to appear remotely.

Trustee Davis moved to allow Trustee Fong to appear remotely due to emergency
circumstances. Trustee Brown seconded the motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Ahola, Keefer

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Boy Scout Troop 380 led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Visitor Presentations

President Lefkovitz read the meeting norms.

A. Public Comments



10.17.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          1
No Public Comments

B. Employee Organizations

There were no requests from employee organizations.

President Lefkovitz read a land acknowledgement.

President Lefkovitz introduced and welcomed Judith Marquez, the Board Student
Liaison.

Ms. Marquez introduced herself and stated that she is a former graduate of the
Sacramento County Office of Education (SCOE) Senior Extension program and looks
forward to participating in her new role as the Board Student Liaison.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of September 5, 2023

Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of September 5, 2023 by
Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Ahola, Keefer

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to adopt the agenda as presented by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee
   Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Ahola, Keefer

5. Official Correspondence

A. No Official Correspondence

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

NEW BUSINESS



10.17.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                       2
In recent legislation (SB 154), $2,000,000 was allocated to SCOE for the development,
curation, production, and dissemination of resources promoting equity and inclusion for
students with disabilities using evidence-based inclusive practices. Under the leadership
of Kristin Wright, Executive Director of Equity, Prevention, and Intervention, these
resources are being developed in school districts and charters.

EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION
On October 14, 2023, we had a wonderful turnout at the Sacramento Republic FC
match against the Miami FC where we celebrated the 2024 Sacramento County
Teachers of the Year and the 2023 Sacramento County Classified Employees of the
Year. Thank you, President Lefkovitz and Trustee Corona Sabeniano for attending this
event. And thank you to our Communications Department and other staff that helped
with the event.

LEADERSHIP
Thank you President Lefkovitz, Vice President Brown, and Trustees Corona Sabeniano,
Davis, and Keefer for attending the Sacramento County School Board Association
dinner on October 4, 2023 where Dr. Tracy White Weeden delivered a presentation on
“Literacy: The Human Right of the 21st Century.” Attendance was excellent and
attendees had in-depth discussions about the literacy work being done in their districts.
On October 5, 2023, we held the first of five literacy Communities of Practice (CoP) with
more than 50 attendees representing local districts and charters.

As we work on elevating literacy in Sacramento County, last week, Dr. Nancy Herota,
Deputy Superintendent, and Brent Malicote, Assistant Superintendent of Educational
Services, attended a statewide system of support meeting where they received valuable
Early Literacy Instructional Materials from National Student Support Accelerator
(NSSA), a program of the Stanford Accelerator for Learning and EdSolutions at
Stanford University. According to the Accelerator, they are building a comprehensive set
of tools and resources for tutoring organizations, schools, and districts that will make it
possible to implement high-impact tutoring at scale. These materials were shared with
SCOE’s Expanded Learning team, led by Mark Drewes, and already, he sees
opportunity for their use in Region 3. Mark is working with Tami Wilson’s team to co-
create literacy support workshops that will provide Expanded Learning Practitioners with
useful skills, strategies, and literacy-based activities.

In concert with our Sacramento County READS! Literacy Initiative, SCOE held a well-
attended professional learning session led by Julie Montali and her Early Learning team
titled, “Creating Equitable Environments for Young Boys of Color - Disrupting
Disproportionate Outcomes.” Thank you, President Lefkovitz for attending. This session
was facilitated by WestEd partner and author, Tamarra Barrett-Osborne.

SCOE SCHOOLS
On October 12, 2023, we celebrated the annual opening of the Palmiter Culinary Café.
Thank you President Lefkovitz, Vice President Brown, Trustees Corona Sabeniano and
Davis for attending. Principal Lauren Roth and Chef Hazelton did a fabulous job hosting



10.17.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           3
the event. The meal prepared by our students, most of whom were first-year students,
was superb.

On October 18, 2023, we celebrate another graduation for El Centro students.

7. Youth Presentation

A. Cal-SOAP Mentor - David W. Gordon

Superintendent Gordon introduced the Youth Presentation stating that this month’s
presenters are undergraduate and graduate students who serve as College Success
Coaches in the California Student Opportunity Access Program (Cal-SOAP).

The following three students from California State University, Sacramento presented:
Miguel Rocha, Amy Chow, and Violet Nino.

8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Corona
Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Ahola, Keefer

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
   White/Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendent Jackie White announced that 10 students will be awarded
diplomas, including one candidate from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. Senior Extension, two
candidates from Cordova Lane Senior Extension, two candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr.
High School, two candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension, and three
candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

9. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve contracts as presented by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Corona
Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried



10.17.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          4
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Ahola, Keefer

10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

A. No Grants

11. New Business - Other

A. Approval of the 2022-2023 Budget Revision No. 4 and Unaudited Actuals Financial
   Report - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Schweizer presented the 2022-2023 Budget Revision No. 4
and Unaudited Actuals Financial Report.

Motion to approve the 2022-2023 Budget Revision No. 4 and Unaudited Actuals
Financial Report by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Keefer

B. NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING and Adoption of Resolution No. 23-14 - Establishing
   the 2023-2024 Appropriations Limit - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Schweizer presented this item.

The Public Hearing opened at 7:22 p.m.

There were no public comments.

The Public Hearing closed at 7:22 p.m.

Motion to adopt Resolution No. 23-14 - Establishing the 2032-2024 Appropriations Limit
by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Ahola, Keefer

C. Authorization to Research and Negotiate Purchase of Additional Office Space -
   Nicolas Schweizer




10.17.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                       5
Associate Superintendent Schweizer presented this item.

Motion to authorize staff to complete the business, as required, to hire necessary
consultants, including an architect and design team, and complete the research and
negotiations towards the purchase of the property located at 10520 Armstrong Avenue
by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Davis, Brown
No: Fong
Absent: Ahola, Keefer

D. SCOE Schools Comprehensive Data Report - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent White and Program Manager Melissa Neuburger, Ph.D.,
presented the SCOE Schools Comprehensive Data Report.

12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Fong - no report.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano reported that she attended the SCOE Artist and Mentor
panel on October 11, 2023. She left this event feeling empowered and reflective.
Trustee Corona Sabeniano also welcomed Judith Marquez, SCOE’s Board Student
Liaison.

Vice President Brown reported that he substituted for Trustee Keefer to host the Cub
Scout Troop 380 at SCOE tonight prior to the Board meeting. He stated that he
discussed citizenship, the rights of citizens, and the rule of law with the troop members.

Trustee Davis - no report.

B. Board President

President Lefkovitz reported that she attended the “Creating Equitable Environments for
Young Boys of Color” at SCOE on October 16, 2023. Later the same day she attended
a learning community at Hiram Johnson High School centered around the book,
“Teaching for Black Lives.”

Board Student Liaison Judith Marquez thanked everyone for the opportunity to attend.

Trustee Davis read a poem written by Inderkum High School student Noa Sanaa from
her book, “Her Black Voice.” She also read a 916 Ink poem written by an El Centro
student.



10.17.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                               6
C. Committees

13. Items for Distribution

A. October/November Events and Site Visits

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. November 14, 2023 and December 12, 2023

15. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

President Lefkovitz requested that the meeting be adjourned in memory of the Israelis
and Palestinians that have died this week.

Motion to adjourn meeting in memory of the Israelis and Palestinians that have died this
week by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Ahola, Keefer

The meeting was adjourned at 8:37 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,



David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




10.17.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          7
