                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   1           I

                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702
lfiu,~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                                  ADOPTED
                   ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                                 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                       SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                               Thursday, February 22, 2024
                              Held at the following locations:
                          10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                     Mather, California
                                              &
                                    Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm by President Goold. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold, Jones, Saylors, Sheetz, Webber and Wood. Board members absent:
  Rice. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  Public comments were not received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by members present
  to adopt the consent calendar as amended:

  1.     Action Summary Minutes
         Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
         of January 25, 2024.
         Action: Adopted Minutes.


  2.     Adopt Resolutions - 2021 Retirement Commendations
         Recommendation: Adopt Resolutions commending the following individuals upon
         their retirement and for their years of skilled performance and deep commitment to the
         fire service
         Action: Adopted 2021 Retirement Resolutions.
           1. Brent w. Barsdale             Engineer
           2. James L. Beil                 Engineer
           3. David W. Burnet Ill           Captain
           4. John Carr                     Firefighter
           5. Gregory G. Casentini          Deputy Chief
        6.    Shawn L. Condit          Captain
        7.    Jeffrey D. Conzatti      Engineer
        8.    Peter J. Danielski       Captain
        9.    Douglas R. Dolezal       Engineer
       10.    Matthew C. Ellinwood     Engineer
       11.    Michael A. Hambrick      Supervising Fire Inspector
       12.    Phillip J. Hart          Firefighter
       13.    Roger D. Hart Jr.        Firefighter
       14.    Todd F. Lanigan          Engineer
       15.    Robert W. Matheson       Captain
       16 .   Phillip Morell           Mechanic
       17.    Thomas J. Murphy         Engineer
       18.    Troy J. Nogosek          Engineer
       19.    John S. Reeves           Firefighter
       20.    Roy E. Rud               Engineer
       21.    Adam S. Russell          Firefighter
       22.    Troy R. Simonick         Captain
       23.    Jeff G. Sjolin           Engineer
       24.    Kevin W. Summers         Engineer
       25.    Craig M. Sweeney         Firefighter/Paramedic


3.    Adopt Resolutions - 2022 Retirement Commendations
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolutions commending the following individuals
      upon their retirement and for their years of skilled performance and deep
      commitment to the fire service.
      Action: Adopted 2022 Retirement Resolutions.

        1.    Timothy D. Barnes         Engineer
        2.    Lisa C. Barsdale          Fire Marshal
        3.    Jack Doug Boan            Engineer
        4.    David A. Carrillo         Engineer
        5.    Scott A. Courtney         Fire Mechanic
        6.    Brian L. Currie           Captain
        7.    John A. Grazis            Captain
        8.    Kenneth J. Harrington     Engineer
        9.    Kevin R. Henson           Engineer
       10.    Greg A. Markel            Captain
       11.    Sherri A. Martucci        Business Applications Analyst
       12.    Marcy L. Mateo            EMS Systems Technician
       13.    Michael McGoldrick        Captain
       14.    Joseph M. Reyes           Firefighter
       15.    Troy N. Thompson          Firefighter
       16.    Richard Turner            Firefighter
       17.    Jason D. Wenner           Captain

2.22.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                           Page 2 of 8
4.    Adopt Resolutions - 2023 Retirement Commendations
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolutions commending the following individuals
      upon their retirement and for their years of skilled performance and deep
      commitment to the fire service.
      Action: Adopted 2023 Retirement Resolutions.

        1. Anthony Benelisha           Firefighter
        2. Steven G. Caldwell          Engineer
        3. Charles H. Jenkins          Assistant Chief
        4. Natividad Manalo            Accounting Specialist
        5. Christopher L. Nelson       Engineer
        6. Robert F. Raddigan          Captain
        7. John N. Raeside             Facilities Manager
        8. William Brad Reynolds       Captain
        9. Carl L. Simmons             Assistant Chief
       10. Timothy E. Swank            Assistant Fleet Manager
       11 . Colin R. Swarthout         Captain
       12. Jeffrey B. Taylor           Captain
       13. Montie Vanlandingham        Chief Pilot
       14. Joseph M. Reyes             Firefighter
       15. Holly Wagner                Firefighter


PRESENTATION ITEMS

1.    Service Delivery Update
      (DC Adam Mitchell & Chief Development Officer Jeff Frye)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation.
      Action: Presentation Received.

2.    FY 2022123 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) and Audit
      Report
      (CFO Dave O'Toole & Ahmed Badawi, CPA)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation and accept the auditor's report.
      Action: Presentation Received.

ACTION ITEMS

1.    Adopt Resolutions - Non-Safety Senior Management, Management and
      Unrepresented Confidential Employees and Senior Safety Management
      Employees
      (HR Manager Melisa Maddux)
      Recommendation: Adopt revised Resolutions with the proposed revisions affecting
      Non-Safety Senior Management, Management and Unrepresented Confidential
      Employees and Senior Safety Management and Safety Management Employees.

2.22.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                           Page 3 of 8
      Action: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Wood , and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2024-064 Affecting Non-Safety Senior
      Management, Management, and Unrepresented Confidential Employees. Moved by
      Director Webber, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by members present to
      adopt Resolution 2024-066 Affecting Senior Safety Management and Safety
      Management Employees.

2.    Adopt Resolution - Side Letter for Administrative Support Personnel
      (HR Manager Melisa Maddux)
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the Side Letter between Sacramento
      Metropolitan Fire District and The Administrative Support Personnel, an Affiliate of
      Local 522.
      Action: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2024-065 Adopting a Side Letter for
      Administrative Support Personnel Memorandum of Understanding By and Between The
      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and The Sacramento Area Firefighters Local 522,
      1.A.F.F. (AFL-CIO).

REPORTS

1.    PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Goold)

      None

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -         (Chief House)

President Goold, Directors, Colleagues members of the public, good evening.

      1.     Congratulations to Firefighter Brandon Mason on his recent Promotion from
             Firefighter/EMT to Firefighter/Paramedic effective February 8.

      2.     New Hires

      •      The District would like to welcome:
             •     Maria Palma, hired for the position of Office Technician in the Logistics
                   Division effective January 29. Maria came to the podium and introduced
                   herself to the Board.
             •     Jasmin Vu, hired for the position of Office Technician in the Community
                   Risk Reduction Division effective February 14. Jasmine came to the
                   podium and introduced herself to the Board,
             •     Nicholas Smeeton, hired for the position of Fire Mechanic in the Fleet
                   Division effective February 13.

      3.     Coach came to the podium and spoke about the Skin Cancer Screening event
             Metro Health and Wellness hosted this past weekend. Thank you to everyone
             involved in bringing this opportunity to the District and to the members who
             participated in the first screening sessions. These screenings are another way

2.22.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 4 of 8
             that we are investing in our members' health and wellness and, for this
             particular screening, not only bring awareness about skin cancer but potentially
             lifesaving information.

             With health and wellness as a priority for labor and management, I am happy to
             pass along that Chief Cole, Captain Votava, and I visited Phoenix Fire
             Department's Health & Wellness Center last week. The visit went very well, and
             this collaboration will continue to be a priority for not only me but for the Board,
             Labor, and throughout the department. During our visit, we were able to tour the
             center during operating hours and have in-depth conversations with department
             leadership about their program and available resources, program successes
             and challenges, and future expansion. The information we obtained will be
             extremely valuable in future discussions about wellness services and cancer
             screening the District may offer, as well as other services to be explored.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

1. Shift Commander Spotlight

       Assistant Chief Joe Fiorica in the Operations Branch assigned as the A Shift
       Commander. Tonight, I would like to highlight the level of professionalism and training
       that we all expect from our members.

       On February 10th, Engine 110 and Medic 105 responded to a report of an
       unresponsive male. When Engine 110 arrived, they found an unresponsive male on
       the ground being assisted by three bystanders.

       I have the crew from Engine 110 here to introduce themselves and tell you a bit more
       about this incident.

       Engine 110 and the crew were only 1 part of this life saving effort that resulted in a
       successful outcome for the patient. Medic 105 and three civilians also played key
       roles in the overall care of this patient. We will be recognizing their part in this success
       story as they are available.

2. 20 Year Pin Presentation

   •   Chief Rudnicki was presented with his 20-year pin.




2.22.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 5 of 8
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT- (Deputy Chief Bailey)

FINANCE

   •   CFO Dave O'Toole brought up several members of the Finance Department to receive
       the following awards from The California Society of Municipal Finance Officer,
       Operating Excellence FY 2023-2024 and Capital Excellence FY 2023-2024.

SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

FLEET:
     •        The new Type V's from fiscal year 21/22 have begun to arrive at Fleet.

CRRD:
     •       On February 21st staff from CRRD & the FIU conducted a joint code
             enforcement inspection with the Sacramento Sheriff's Office and Sacramento
             County Tax Collection & Licensing Division at a hair accessories business on
             Sky Pkwy in South Sacramento. The agencies were acting on a tip received by
             CRRD regarding illegal sale of fireworks from the business. Personnel arrived
             to find an assortment of fireworks with counterfeit safe and sane seals on offer
             at the front door to the store. The fireworks were confiscated and booked as
             evidence by the Sheriff's Office. Correction notices were issued for a multitude
             of California Fire Code violations & business licensing issues, and local
             agencies will continue to work with the business owner to achieve compliance.
             CRRD will be working with our PIO on messaging to remind the community and
             business owners that in the unincorporated area of Sacramento County it is
             unlawful to possess, sell, use, display or discharge "safe and sane" fireworks
             outside of the time period beginning at 12:00 on June 28 and ending at 10:00
             p.m. on July 5th. It is also unlawful for any person to sell "safe and sane"
             fireworks without a valid County business license authorizing such sales.
             Finally, California has a zero-tolerance policy for the sale and use of illegal
             fireworks. Anything that goes up in the air, travels or explodes is illegal and
             dangerous.
       •     Investigator Sargent & OC Investigator Aney attended Serial Wildland Arson
             Investigation Training (SWAIT) conference in Reno February 06-08th.
       •     On February 16th Investigator Morton arrested a suspect on charges of PC 422
             - criminal threats & PC 451 (b) arson of an inhabited structure. This was a
             residential structure fire that occurred on White Rose Court in B9 and there
             were no injuries reported .
       •     Supervising Inspector Schmidt attended Fire Instructor 1A course which is a
             requirement to open the OSFM Fire Marshal task book. Further, this course
             enhances our supervisor's skill set which benefits our in-house training program
             for Fire Inspector I & lls.

2.22.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 6 of 8
3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Pete Votava for Vice President Sean
   Scollard)

Pete Votava stated 522 is working collaboratively with Chief Mitchell on a hiring plan to
maintain staffing. He reported on the visit to a Health & Wellness Center in Phoenix, Arizona
and they will continue to meet and put together a plan.

4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
      10545 Annstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.


      A.      Executive Committee - (President Goold)
              No Report

       B.     Communications Center JPA - (AC Greene)
              No Report

       C.      Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Clark)
               Met tonight and received a comprehensive report and mid-year budget review.

       D.      Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
               No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Jones thanked staff for their presentations tonight.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matters:

The Board recessed to Closed Session at 7:36 PM on the following matters:

1.     PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION§ 54956.9 (a) -
       ONE (1) MATTER OF WORKERS COMPENSATION SETTLEMENT AUTHORITY:

      1. Carl Powell and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      Claim # 4A2303DT6SL-0001 - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority -
      Attorney Colin Connor of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

      Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Director Saylors, and carried
      unanimously by members present to give authority to its third-party administrator to
      conclude a settlement of the matter.



2.22.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                       Page 7 of 8
2.    CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - PENDING LITIGATION -
      California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a): One case
       Arbitration of Yuri Torres and Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
       General Counsel John Lavra

      Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Director Sheetz, and carried
      unanimously by members present to give authority to approve a settlement in this
      matter.

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

The board reconvened to open session at 8:07 PM:

General Counsel John Lavra reported the Board met in Closed Session on two items 1) to
consider a Workers Compensation Settlement for Carol Powell, the Board voted unanimously
to approve the settlement. 2) Conference with Legal Counsel, Pending Litigation, Labor
Arbitration concerning Yuri Torres, the Board voted unanimously to approve a settlement.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:
https://metrofire.ca .gov/2024-02-22-board-meeting
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:08 p.m.




2.22.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                Page 8 of 8
