Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - Board Meeting to start following the
County Committee on School District Organization meeting which starts at 5:30 p.m.
Tuesday, January 11, 2022
MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Call to Order and Roll Call

Meeting called to order at 7:41 PM

Members present via teleconference: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul
Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Also present via teleconference were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; Nicolas Schweizer, Associate
Superintendent; Darrien Slider-Johnson, Chief Administrator; Brent Malicote and Jacqueline White,
Assistant Superintendents; Jerry Jones, Michael Kast, Channa Cook-Harvey, Kristen Wright, and Rachel
Perry, Executive Directors; Tim Herrera and Shanine Coats, Directors; other staff; and Wende Watson,
Executive Assistant.

2. Pledge of Allegiance

The pledge was recited during the County Committee Meeting, which was held immediately prior to this
meeting.

3. Approval of Minutes
A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of November 16, 2021
Motion by Trustee Heather Davis, second by Trustee Harold Fong.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Adoption of Agenda

Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no Official Correspondence.

6. Visitor Presentations

A. General Public – There were no public comments.
B. Employee Organizations – There were no presentations.



                                                                                                    1/6
7. Superintendent’s Report
Recognition of the February 2022 Employees of the Month
Gabriel Esparza-De Jesus, Transition Specialist, Elinor Lincoln Hickey Jr./Sr. High School Senior
Extension Program, was recognized and honored as the classified employee of the month for February.
Brendan Moore, Alternative Education Teacher, Elinor Lincoln Hickey Jr./Sr. High School Senior
Extension Program, was recognized and honored as the certificated employee of the month for
February.
Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

LOCAL DISTRICT UPDATES
Local Districts are experiencing high rates of positive COVID cases among staff and students. This is
causing staffing shortages at all levels – teachers, administrators, food workers, custodial staff, bus
drivers, and more. Districts are mobilizing all site and district level staff to support students in the
classroom. Every district has expanded testing efforts and capacity for students and staff as a key
strategy to mitigate the spread. The State has provided with more personal protective equipment (PPE)
in the form of N95 masks that we will distribute to our local schools and districts. After this initial
shipment, each County Office can order PPE. We are grateful for the support of Public Health Officer Dr.
Kasirye and Sacramento County Public Health. During our call with district superintendents this morning,
Dr. Kasirye responded to questions from superintendents, and she continues to respond to the needs of
our districts.

COVID TESTS FOR SCHOOLS
To help mitigate the spread of COVID-19 in our schools, last week we received a large allotment of at-
home COVID-19 tests – over 213,000 tests – to provide our local school districts and charter schools.
These tests will provide families with the option – if they so choose – to test their children. The California
Department of Public Health (CDPH) is distributing approximately 2 million tests to schools statewide for
this purpose. Many thanks to Support Services Director Chris Gilbert, Coordinator Nick LaMattina, and
Project Specialist Parrish Chavez for their work in distributing the tests to our local schools.

COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
We continue to follow Health and Safety protocols for students and staff. All students and staff were
offered at-home test kits. Our programs continue to run and enroll students. Current enrollment at
Colley: 19 students in person and 12 in Independent Study. Current enrollment at Hickey: 19 students in
person and 12 in Independent Study. We are excited to be piloting lessons this spring in our
Entrepreneurship class as part of our Makers Space.

EL CENTRO
We are continuing to work with Probation to ensure the Health and Safety protocols are being followed.
Students in our NCCT program created holiday decorations that they could give to their families. In
addition, these decorations were available for purchase. Several SCOE staff including President
Talamantes went home with Santas and Christmas Trees after their last visit. Students in the Culinary
program created their own favorite chili recipe during the month of December. We are hoping for a
cookoff in the near future.
SPECIAL EDUCATION UPDATE
We originally planned to start in-home services for our Infant Development Program again on January
31. Due to recent COVID numbers, we are delaying going into families' homes until cases have
decreased and we can provide services safely for the families and SCOE staff. We continue to provide
Independent Study as an option for our Mod/Severe students, with four of our Special Education
teaching staff devoted solely to this. All our programs are following health and safetyprotocols, even
                                                                                                            2/6
with all precautions being taken we are still being hit hard by COVID for both staff and students. Staff
have been very flexible and willing to help wherever they are needed to keep programs open.

DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION UPDATE
We begin 2022 with adding a new Coordinator of Equity, Inclusion, and Social Justice, who brings
experience and expertise. Veronica Ruiz came to us from Roseville Joint Unified, where she was a high
school counselor who helped facilitate their district equity work. Veronica grew up in Sacramento and
earned her bachelor's from UC Davis and Master's in Counseling from Harvard University. As we grow
our equity work in the new year, we are thrilled to continue our on-going partnership with the National
Equity Project to offer professional learning opportunities to SCOE staff and expand offerings to districts
and schools. They also continue to provide consultation and support in all aspects of our DEI work. The
next professional learning session for SCOE staff will be on February 24 and will focus on Designing and
Facilitating Meetings for Equity. The first of a 4-part series hosted by the National Equity Project for
districts and schools across the region will begin on January 20 with a session called Leading and
Working Toward Equity. Finally, on January 28, retired Sacramento Police Chief Daniel Hanh will be
conducting a webinar for us about some of the history of Sacramento and his own reflections.

CAP RADIO MENTAL HEALTH SEGMENT
On January 10 – along with Mental Health Director Dr. Chris Williams – he (Superintendent Gordon)
appeared on the Capital Public Radio program “Insight” in a prerecorded interview. We discussed
SCOE’s mental health support efforts in our schools. The program included a segment with members of
the student advisory committee who talked about the need they see among their peers for mental health
support. The young people were extraordinary. If you missed the program, we can provide you with a
link to a recording.

SLY PARK RESPONSE TO COVID
He commended the entire staff at Sly Park for their quick, thoughtful, and professional action in recent
weeks. As you know, we reopened to campers on January 4, under very stringent protocols for families
who voluntarily registered for the outdoor science camp. However, based on new recommendations from
Sacramento County Public Health Officer Dr. Olivia Kasirye and El Dorado County Health Officer Dr.
Nancy Williams, we shut down operations following confirmation of positive COVID-19 cases among
guests. We opened at 40 percent capacity, meaning fewer than 80 guests were on-site. Our Sly Park
team did an outstanding job coordinating notification of families and making sure students and
chaperones were safe. In consultation with public health officers from both Sacramento and El Dorado
Counties, we plan to postpone overnight camper trips for the last two weeks of January and will
reassess in February.

8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon
B. Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students – Jacqueline White/Michael Kast

Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendent, announced that the following students will be awarded a
diploma: Tiffani Nicole Hale, Ivone Rae Hulbert, Gianna Antoinette Martin, David Muniz-Ramirez, and
                                                                                                           3/6
Kathya Guadalupe Ponce-Hernandez from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School; Tiel Nikki Baro from
Cordova Lane Senior Extension; 2 candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School; Kiara Bizer, Luis
Manuel Garcia, Lissette Monique Martinez, Jose Carlos Nieto Romero, and Suezanna Kay Prater from
Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension; and Fernando Arriola, Demoriea C. Barker, Jr., Trahmari Trahan
Fournette, Braeden Frank Garcia, Aaron Michael Mallary, Anthony Nathaniel Plascencia, Jacoby Pope,
Elijah Queen, Anthony Ritchie, Amber Rodriguez, Saeed Hilmi Saeed, Jaideep Singh Sandhu, Hailey
June Scott-Madding, Emmillie Marie Valli, Roman Urbieta, and Frank Williams from North Area Senior
Extension.

9. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to Approve.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts and Accept
Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other Expenditures Associated
with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget – David W. Gordon

Action: A. AB 130 Foster Youth Direct Services Grant - Brent Malicote
Action: B. Project Cal-HOPE Student Support - Brent Malicote

Motion to Approve.

Motion by Trustee Harold Fong, second by Trustee Heather Davis.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

11. New Business - Other

A. Approval of Proposed Board Meeting Dates for 2022-2023 – David W. Gordon

Motion to Approve.

Motion by Trustee Heather Davis, second by Trustee Joanne Ahola.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

B. Consideration and Adoption of Resolution 22-01 - Authorizing Continuance of
Teleconferenced Board Meetings - Teresa Stinson

Motion to Approve.
Motion by Trustee Alfred Brown, second by Trustee Harold Fong.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

                                                                                                    4/6
C. Public Hearing and Action on Proposed Material Revision to American River Collegiate
Academy Charter to Add Transitional Kindergarten (TK) - Teresa Stinson

The public hearing opened at 8:24 p.m.

General Counsel, Ms. Stinson, presented this item and introduced Superintendent Robin Stout and
Principal Jillayne Antoon who provided a brief summary of the proposal.

There were no public comments.

The public hearing closed at 8:27 p.m.

The Board asked questions and deliberated.

Trustee Keefer moved to approve Resolution No. 22-02 approving a material revision to the ARCA
charter so that ARCA may offer Transitional Kindergarten to families. Trustee Davis seconded the
motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

D. NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING - Proposed Material Revision to American River Collegiate
Academy Charter to Add Transitional Kindergarten (TK)

12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Keefer is looking forward to the upcoming Policy Committee. He also referenced the article sent
by Trustee Fong about the school in Los Angeles with high results. He looked at the conditions of
enrolling in the school and it has a very strenuous criteria to enroll including very high test scores, IQ
tests, etc. He appreciated the effort to show us what excellence could look like but when you are pulling
those students from around Los Angeles Unified School District in order to create that, we call that in the
charter school parlance "skimming" or "creaming"; that is exactly what they are doing. He appreciated
Trustee Fong bringing it to our attention and we should keep our eye on that to make sure we have equity
and equitable access for education to students and the Sacramento County.

Trustee Brown made comments about remodeling at Sly Park - cafeteria and kitchen including HVAC,
dorm rooms, bathrooms are ADA compliant, and other upgrades have been made.

Trustee Ahola said she recently celebrated her 40th birthday with her family. She is hopeful that this year
will be better and acknowledged the rough start.

Trustee Davis is recovering from the flu and is looking forward to a great year. She was excited to hear
the Superintendent’s Report and the updates from Trustee Brown regarding the Sly Park remodel.

Trustee Fong feels sympathy for teachers and students during this COVID surge.

Trustee Lefkovitz gave a special thanks to the SCOE team for persisting through the pandemic and
appreciates the efforts. She was happy to hear about the peer mentoring program at Gerber. A new law
has been passed by the governor to bring mental healtheducation to students in our schools which will
be added to the curriculum for schools that have health curriculums. It should roll out in the next two
years. With all of the challenges our students are facing and the emotional crisis, it is about time we do
this. She is hopeful for a better year.
                                                                                                           5/6
B. Board President

President Talamantes reported that she is recovering from the flu. She shared updates from the
Executive Committee meeting in December, which included things such as reviewing the
superintendent evaluation process, posting Board meeting recordings on our website, future agenda
topics, student Board member, and expanding the Curriculum Committee to monitor student
achievement and how to go about measurements, accountability, and data.

C. Committees

See B. Board President above.

13. Items for Distribution

A. January/February Events
B. January/February Site Visits

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. February 1, 2022
B. February 15, 2022

15. Adjournment

Motion to Adjourn Meeting.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Heather Davis
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Meeting adjourned at 8:48 p.m.

Respectfully Submitted,


David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




                                                                                                    6/6
