2/17/22, 4:25 PM                                                 BoardDocs® Plus


SACRAMENTO COUNTY COMMITTEE ON SCHOOL DISTRICT ORGANIZATION

Tuesday, January 11, 2022 at 5:30 p.m.

MINUTES - Unapproved
1. CALL TO ORDER AND ROLL CALL

Meeting called to order at 5:35 PM

Members present via teleconference: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee
Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola

Also present via teleconference were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; Nicolas Schweizer,
Associate Superintendent; Brent Malicote and Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendents; Jerry
Jones, Rachel Perry, Executive Directors; Tim Herrera and Shanine Coats, Directors; other staff; and
Wende Watson, Executive Assistant.

2. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Keefer led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Approval of the Minutes of the County Committee Meeting of November 16, 2021

Motion to Approve by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Heather Davis,
Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Not Present at Vote: Trustee Harold Fong

4. Adoption of Agenda

Motion to adopt agenda by Trustee Heather Davis, second by Trustee Paul Keefer.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

5. Visitor Presentations

A. General Public - There were no public comments.

6. NEW BUSINESS

A. Public Hearing and Action on Natomas Unified School District’s Proposal Under Education Code
Section 5019 to Change Election Methods, Adopt Trustee Areas Map, and Establish Sequence of
Elections; Action on Resolution No. CC-22-01 - Teresa Stinson



https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                         1/3
2/17/22, 4:25 PM                                                 BoardDocs® Plus


The Sacramento County Committee on School District Organization held a public hearing on the
Natomas Unified School District’s proposal to change its method of electing governing board members,
adopt a trustee area boundaries map, and establish the sequence of elections. Currently, Natomas' five
board members are elected under an "at-large” system, where each trustee is elected by the registered
voters of the entire school district. Natomas proposed, effective for the November 2022 and 2024
election cycles, to change its election method so one board member residing within each trustee area
will be elected by the registered voters residing in that trustee area (“by-trustee area” elections). This
public hearing will provide the opportunity for public comment and input regarding Natomas’ proposal
to change election methods. At the conclusion of the public hearing, the County Committee may
approve or deny Natomas’ proposal.

The public hearing opened at 5:39 p.m.

Superintendent Chris Evans presented Natomas Unified School District’s Proposal to change
election methods, adopt trustee areas map, and establish sequence of elections. Also present was
Board President Micah Grant, Former Board President Susan Heredia, Legal Counsel, and Justin
Smith from Cooperative Strategies.

Fourteen individuals provided public comments: Rory Barlew, Brenda Borge, Sandra Reyes, Z. Wayne
Johnson, Herman Barahona, Heather Fargo, Magen Hernandez, Noel Mora, Mara Harvey, Erica
Jaramillo, Amie Tokuhama, Crystal Baham, Sachiko Konatsu, and Scott Rafferty.

This public hearing closed at 6:26 p.m.

The County Committee deliberated, asked questions, and had a lengthy discussion regarding
NUSD’s proposal.

Following the Board’s deliberations, Chair Talamantes asked if there was a motion to approve or
deny the Natomas Unified School District’sproposal.

Trustee Brown moved to approve and adopt Resolution No. CC-22-01 approving the Natomas Unified
School District’s proposal to change to by trustee area elections.

There was additional discussion regarding the proposal.

Trustee Brown moved, and Trustee Ahola seconded the motion to approve and adopt Resolution No.
CC-22-01 approving the Natomas Unified School District’s proposal to change to by trustee area
elections.

Additional conversation regarding this motion took place.

Trustee Fong proposed a substitute motion to deny the Natomas Unified School District Board’s
proposal to change toby trustee area elections. There was no second.

Chair Talamantes then asked Superintendent Gordon to conduct a roll call vote on Trustee Brown’s
motion, which was seconded by Trustee Ahola, to approve and adopt Resolution No. CC-22-01
approving the Natomas Unified School District’s proposal to change to by trustee area elections.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Heather Davis,
Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
No: Trustee Harold Fong
https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                           2/3
2/17/22, 4:25 PM                                                 BoardDocs® Plus


B. Notice of Public Hearing - Public Hearing and Action on Natomas Unified School District’s Proposal
Under Education Code Section 5019 to Change Election Methods, Adopt Trustee Areas Map, and
Establish Sequence of Elections; Action on Resolution No. CC-22-01 - Teresa Stinson

7. ADJOURNMENT

Motion to Adjourn Meeting

Motion by Trustee Joanne Ahola, second by Trustee Paul Keefer.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Not Present at Vote: Trustee Heather Davis

The meeting adjourned at 7:40 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,



David W. Gordon
Secretary to the County Committee

Date approved:




https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                          3/3
