       l           I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   ~1;1~                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700

  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief

                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                            Thursday, October 26, 2023 - 6:00 PM
                                             Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                                  10545 Armstrong Avenue
D'Elman Clark
                                                 Board Room - Second Floor
Board President                                       Mather, California
Division 6                                                    &
Grant Goold                                          Remotely Via Zoom
Board Vice President                             Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Division 2
                                                    Passcode: metro2101
Ted Wood                                  Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Board Secretary
Division 4                                         ir Passcode: 838771796 #
                        https://us06web.zoom. us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ1 Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1 VWZz09
Cinthia Saylors
Board Member
Division 1
                       The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Robert Webber              and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.
Board Member
Division 3

Jennifer Sheetz        The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Board Member           the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
Division 5
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
Brian Rice             Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 7
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Gay Jones              reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Board Member           reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
Division 8
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
John Costa             accommodations:
Board Member
Division 9
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2023


►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District will be cablecast on Metro Cable
14, the local government affairs channel on Comcast, Consolidated Communications and
AT&T U-Verse cable systems. This meeting is also webcast at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov.
Today's meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday, October 30, 2023 and again at 1 :00
p.m. on Wednesday, November 1, 2023 on Channel 14. This meeting can also be viewed
at youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire Djstrict appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers' comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                  Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                          6
       Recommendation : Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meetings of September 28, 2023.

2.     New Board Policy - Meal and Refreshment Policy                                                                  15
       Recommendation: Approve the Meal and Refreshment Policy for
       implementation.
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2023


3.   Adopt Resolution - Voluntary Rate Range Program (VRRP)                     23
     Intergovernmental Transfer (IGT) Program from January 1, 2022 through
     December 31, 2022.
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution reauthorizing the Fire Chief to enter into
     necessary agreements with DHCS to participate in the VRRP IGT covering the
     period of January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2022.

4.   Adopt Resolution - Contract Award - Owner Advisor for Zinfandel       27
     Phase 3 Buildout Project.
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the Request for Exception to
     Formal Solicitation Process and award a contract to Abercrombie
     Planning+Design.

5.   Adopt Resolution - Surplus Vehicle Designation                               50
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution designating the vehicles listed as surplus.

6.   Purchase Approval - Six (6) Ambulance Remounts                      54
     Recommendation: Approve the remounting of these six (6) Ambulances by
     Leader Industries.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.   Fiscal Year 2024-25 Pension Plan Actuarial Valuations by the California                                        59
     Public Employees' Retirement System
     (CFO Dave O'Toole)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation and accept the assessed actuarial
     report.

2.   Standards of Cover Presentation                                                                                73
     (Chief Development Officer Jeff Frye & GIS Data Analyst Jake Whealen)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation.

ACTION ITEMS:

1.   Adopt Resolution - Acquisition of Real Property - Grantline 220 Future                 83
     Fire Station Site
     (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
     Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to affect the
     acquisition of real property for a future fire station site in the Grantline 220 project
     area.
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                              THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2023



REPORTS:

1.    PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Clark)

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Chief House)
            OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
            ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Bailey)
            SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

3.    SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice
      President)

4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
      Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

      A.     Executive Committee - (President Clark)
             Next Meeting : TBD

      B.     Communications Center JPA - (AC Greene)
             Next Meeting: October 24, 2023 at 9:00 AM

      C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
             Met Today: October 26, 2023 at 5:00 PM

      D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
             Next Meeting: November 9, 2023

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matters:

1.    PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION § 54956.9 (A) -
      ONE (1) MATTER OF WORKERS COMPENSATION COMPROMISE AND
      RELEASE:

      1. Joseph Reyes and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      Claim #ADJ480790, ADJ13186340, ADJ9769950, ADJ13186341, ADJ13186339,
      ADJ 13186342, ADJ 13749286 - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority -
      Tyler Sonksen of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                      THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2023


ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong A venue, Mather, CA

    •    Regular Board Meeting - November 9, 2023 at 6:00 PM
    •    Regular Board Meeting - December 14, 2023 at 6:00 PM

Posted on October 23, 2023 by 4:30 p.m.



Marni Rittbur~MC,CP
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
•'IEi!I Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., S_
                                           uite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702
lfj.;~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief
                   ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING
                                 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                        SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                              Thursday, September 28, 2023
                              Held at the following locations:
                                      Fire Station 111
                                        Engine Bay
                                  16609 Rio Linda Blvd.
                                   Rio Linda, California
                                              &
                                    Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:02 pm by President Clark. Board members present:
  Clark, Jones, Saylors, Sheetz, Webber and Wood. Board members absent: Costa, Goold,
  and Rice. Staff present: Chief House, and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  Public comment was received .

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Wood , and carried unanimously by members
  present to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.      Action Summary Minutes
          Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
          Board Meeting of August 10, 2023.
          Action: Approved the Action Summary Minutes
  2.      Adopt Resolution - Reimbursement For Tax Exempt Debt
          Recommendation: Staff recommends adoption of the reimbursement Resolution.
          Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-059 declaring the official intent of the District
          to reimburse itself for certain capital and other expenditures from the proceeds
          of proposed indebtedness.

  3.     Purchase of Motorola 800 MHz Radios
         Recommendation: Approve the Communications Division to purchase new
         Motorola 800 MHz Radio Equipment from Motorola Solutions Inc. at a total cost
         not to exceed the budgeted amount of $147,000.
         Action: Approved the purchase of new Motorola 800 MHz Radio Equipment




                                                                                                            P6
      from Motorola Solutions Inc. at a total cost not to exceed the budgeted amount
      of $147,000.

4.    Adopt Resolution - Temporary License Agreement- Sandbag Filling Station
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the Fire Chief or his designee to
      execute and administer an agreement with the County of Sacramento materially similar
      to the Temporary License Agreement attached.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-060 authorizing the Fire Chief or his designee to
      execute and administer an agreement with the County of Sacramento materially similar
      to the Temporary License Agreement attached.

5.    Engineer Kyle E. Rutherford Station 42 Dedication
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution dedicating Station 42 in memory of
      Engineer Kyle E. Rutherford.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-061 dedicating Station 42 in memory of
      Engineer Kyle E. Rutherford.

6.    Captain Miguel (Mike} A. Guzman Sr. Station 42 Dedication
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution dedicating Station 42 in memory of
      Captain Miguel (Mike) A. Guzman Sr.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-062 dedicating Station 42 in memory of
      Captain Miguel (Mike) A. Guzman Sr.

7.    Adopt Resolution - Response to County of Sacramento Request for
      Proposals 067
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution to authorize the Fire Chief or his
      designee to submit a response to County of Sacramento RFP 067 Opioid
      Remediation Activities.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-058 authorizing the Fire Chief or his
      designee to submit a response to County of Sacramento RFP 067 Opioid
      Remediation Activities.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.     Battalion 5 Water Tender Deployment
       (Chief Development Officer Jeff Frye & Assistant Chief Joe Fiorica)
       Recommendation: Receive presentation.
       Action: Presentation received.
       Public Comment was received from community member Richard Glover.

Director Goold arrived at 6: 15 p.m.

REPORTS

1.     PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Clark)

       No Report
9 .28.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                 Page 2 of 9




                                                                                              P7
2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Interim Chief Haverty)

1. Members
    a. It is with much sadness that I inform you of the passing of:

            i. Retired Captain James Stewart. Captain Stewart began his fire service career
               with the Arcade Fire Department in the 1960s and retired from the American
               River Fire Protection District in 1995. Services for Captain Stewart will be held
               on Friday, October 27, at Holy Trinity Parish located at 3111 Country Club
               Drive, El Dorado Hills, 95762, at 11 :00 a.m.

            ii. Retired Chief Ronny J. Coleman, State Fire Marshal, passed away peacefully
                on September 19, 2023, at Mercy General Hospital in Sacramento. Chief
                Coleman was a 50-plus-year fire service veteran, has authored more than 19
                books, and was influential within our industry as an advisor, leader, and
                mentor. No service information is available at this time other than it will take
                place in San Clemente.

              Please keep the Stewart and Coleman families in your thoughts.

     b. Congratulations to the following members for being selected to join the US&R CA
        Taskforce Team effective September 20:
                • Engineer Jason Baldwin
                • Firefighter Matthew Dargan
                • Captain Brendan Hogan
                • Firefighter Alexander Pibl
                • Firefighter Christopher Upchurch

     c. LODD Station Dedication, Station 42
           Earlier today, the District was honored to hold a station dedication at Station 42
           for Captain Miguel "Mike" Arthur Guzman and Engineer Kyle Edward
           Rutherford. Plaques were installed at the station for both members and will
           serve as a constant memorial to honor the ultimate sacrifice for their dedication
           to duty and loyalty to the citizens they served. The significance of the
           contributions made by Mike and Kyle cannot be minimized, and while they will
           be dearly missed, their legacy lives on in the spirit of those who continue to
           serve.

              Thank you to all the members who helped organize this important event and to
              the family, friends, and current and retired members who attended.

2. Recruitment(s)
    a. The District is accepting:
           i. applications (external) for the position of Office Technician with a final filing
              date of October 13 by 4 PM

9.28.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 3 of 9




                                                                                                   PB
3. Miscellaneous & Meetings
         a. My meetings with the membership (45-day meeting goal) are coming to an end.
            I have met with the majority of members, with only two makeup meetings
            remaining.

           b. Labor Management Collaboration Meeting on the 20th was very productive. We
              covered numerous topics, resolved several items, and provided feedback and
              direction for others. Great conversation and collaboration among all attendees.

           c. Capital Air Show
              Being present throughout the weekend at this year's Capital Air Show was an
              honor. The Air Show provided endless fun and activities for all attendees, and
              Metro Fire was well-represented throughout the weekend. This is only possible
              due to the dedication and support of our members at the event and behind the
              scenes - thank you to everyone who had a hand in making this year's event
              successful - I know there are many of you.

           d. I continue to meet with our external stakeholders and participated in several
              "meet-and-greets" since the last board meeting:
                  • Fire Chief Maurice Johnson, El Dorado Hills Fire Department
                  • The Niello Company
                  • Fire Chief Brian Marshall, CalOES
                  • EMS Medical Director Gregory Kann
              These meetings continue to go well, and we all share an interest in being
              collaborative partners when discussing matters of mutual interest.

OPERATIONS REPORT (Deputy Chief Adam MitchefD

1. CA Capital Airshow

   •   Record attendance of 105,000 over two days
   •   What does it take to provide public safety at the airshow?
       o   A team of 30 per day from SMFD, in addition to 11 members from Sac County
           Airports FD and 130+ from SSO.
           •   Metro suppression: 8 members
           •   Metro EMS: 7 members
           •   Metro CERT: 20 members (363 hours volunteered)
           •   Metro Logs: 3 members
           •   ICP: 8 SSO reps and 1 SRFECC dispatcher
   •   In addition, Captain Tim White led a comprehensive recruitment for FF, MMP, Reserve
       FF, and CERT supported by 4 suppression members, 3 Reserve FFs, and our
       Explorers from Del Campo HS.


9.28.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 4 of 9




                                                                                                P9
2. SSD Critical Incident Management Training

   Twenty-three (23) members from Metro Fire participated in a Critical Incident
   Management training class hosted by Sac County Sheriff. The class provided us with
   great insight as to how critical law enforcement incidents are managed and how we can
   best integrate into their incident management system. BC Daly assisted as an instructor
   and was able to present information to our law enforcement partners on how we operate
   on our incidents. This was a great opportunity to strengthen our already solid relationship
   with the Sheriff's Department.

3. MIH Incident Presentation (BC Perryman)

   DC Mitchell introduced BC Perryman who played a voice message from a thankful
   wheelchair bound couple in the Antelope area. The MIH team, Chief Aldrich, Captain
   Crawford and many others moved them to a bottom floor apartment.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT (CFO Dave O'Too/e)

PUBLIC AFFAIRS:

   •   We had a station dedication for Captain Guzman and Engineer Rutherford at Station
       42 this morning. Thank you to logistics, the honor guard, Captain Nunez, Chaplain
       Snider, Local 522, and everyone that made it a success.

   •   The Cancer Awareness Engine will be arriving on October 1 and traveling through all 5
       Battalions as a front-line engine to bring awareness and early detection reminders to
       our community. Thank you to our sponsors; the Sacramento Kings, the cities of
       Rancho Cordova and Citrus Heights, our Firefighters Association, and Local 522.

   •   There will be a promotion ceremony scheduled for Tuesday, October 3 at
       headquarters starting at 5:30. 22 people will be recognized and promoted that
       evening.

   •   The California Firefighters Foundation Memorial is happening Saturday, October 14.
       Attendees will stage at 3pm at the Sheraton Hotel downtown. This year we will be
       adding Captain Jeffrey Vitti and Engineer Kyle Rutherford to the wall. Public Affairs
       asks that everyone come out and show your support. We plan to have a significant
       Metro Fire presence.

   •   A Transfer of Command Ceremony for Fire Chief House is scheduled at the Cordova
       High School Performing Arts studio on October 24 at 5:30. We hope to have a huge
       turnout to support Fire Chief House and Metro Fire as we honor this transition.




9.28.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 5 of 9




                                                                                                 P10
HUMAN RESOURCES:

HR is still meeting weekly with the new Third-Party Administrator transition team for the
Workers' Compensation Contract. Progress is going as projected. The go-live date is
anticipated for November 1.

An update on candidates in backgrounds
   1. 5 Paramedics are in backgrounds for the October 9, 2023 MMP Academy.
   2. 12 external AND 8 internal FF Paramedics are in backgrounds for the January 16,
      2024 Academy.
   3. HR also has 1 Fire Mechanic and 1 MIH provider in backgrounds.

Recruitments:
   1. Paramedic recruitment closes tomorrow, September 29. Interviews are prescheduled
      for October 5, 12, and 19.
  2. Data Analyst closes on October 13

Additionally, these policies are expected to reach the Policy Committee next couple of
months:
   • Drug and Alcohol Policy (currently working with LCW)
   • EEO Policy
   • Harassment Policy
   • Workplace Violence Policy
   • Non-Discrimination Policy
   • Non-Retaliation Policy
   • Sick Leave Policy
   • FMLA Policy
   • Timecard Policy
   • Travel and Conference Policy

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT:

•   Metro Fire was asked by CSDA to participate in their annual Special Districts Tour, which
    occurred on Tuesday and Wednesday this week. Th e tour consisted of visits to six
    special districts throughout the Bay Area.

•   The 27-member traveling delegation is comprised of staffers from the California
    Legislature, the Legislative Analysts Office, the Senate Committee on Government and
    Finance, and special district associations.

•   Metro Fire is the only special district who is traveling with the delegation, which is
    considered an honor for our district and fantastic opportunity for us to continue realizing
    the Board objective of increased external engagement. Kyle Macdonald is representing us
    on the tour and he's been asked to address the entire delegation and field questions
    about special districts from the participants.


9.28.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 6 of 9




                                                                                                  P11
•   Follow up touch-ins will be completed later this week.

•   This tour has allowed Metro Fire to enhance our presence not just among our special
    districts partners, but also with the state legislature and policy professionals, solidifying
    our status as a go-to resource within the Fire Service.

FINANCE

•   After wrapping up the Final Budget and CIP Plan, Finance submitted excellence award
    applications this week for two budget awards, one state and one national, and a state
    award for the CIP. We should know about those in the Spring of 2024.

•   Our annual audit is progressing well with our new third-party auditor. Board members
    should have or soon will receive a risk questionnaire from Badawi and Associates seeking
    information that will help them identify fraud risks, not the existence of risk itself. The
    audit will be completed in December.

•   Finance is working on changes to the meal and refreshment policy, and the travel and
    conference policy, and expects to bring those to the Board in November.

•   Finally, there was a recent addition to the Finance Family. Accounting Specialist Milton
    Mora and his wife Yvette welcomed their second son Andres Gabriel Mora-Gomez on
    September 7. Baby and family are doing well.

SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT (Deputy Chief Tyler Wagaman)
Facilities:
   • Kitchens at Stations 108 and 105 will be finalized next week.
   • Station 42 beautification, my hat goes off to the three crews and facilities team that
       worked tirelessly to beautify that station.
   • With rain on the approach, Roofs at these five stations will be replaced: Stations 103,
        108, 29, 114 and Hurley.
   • With winter approaching, we will be looking at our back-up emergency generators at
       all stations to make sure we are ready for storms that may knock out the power.

Fleet:
   • Two ambulances will be going into service very soon, Medic 41 and Medic 61 will be
       getting those new ambulances.

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Firefighter Michael Gildone for Vice
    President Matt Cole)

Labor/management
-8 hours
-lots of great discussion from both sides -appreciate new leadership


9.28.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 7 of 9




                                                                                                    P12
CPF district 3&4
-Many local leaders
-CJAC Paramedic Program

Tuesday 9/26 squad meeting
-Great discussion
-Moving out of a pilot program
-Change in deployment

Wednesday E-Board
-Firefighter memorial 10/14
-Eng. Rutherford
-Capt. Vitti

4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
      10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

      A.       Executive Committee - (President Clark)
               Next Meeting: TBD
               No Report.

       8.      Communications Center JPA - (AC Greene)

      The Communications Center JPA Board met on September 26 for its Regular Board
      meeting and took the following actions:

       •    Approved the contract and subsequent implementation of Delphini Intelligence
            software.

       •    Approved the expenditure not exceeding $80,000 for the purchase and installation
                                            1

            of an 8' steel fence encompassing the Center parking lot.

       The Communications Center JPA Board will meet next on October 10, 2023 for its
       regularly scheduled meeting at SMFD's Boardroom.

       C.      Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
               Next Meeting: October 26, 2023 at 5:00 PM
               Todais meeting was cancelled no report.  1




       D.      Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
               Next Meeting: October 12, 2023

               No Report.




9.28.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                       Page 8 of 9




                                                                                                                   P13
BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Jones thanked the hosts at Station 111 for opening their door and gates tonight.
Director Jones thanked citizen Mr. Glover for his comments tonight. Thanked BC Perryman
with MIH and all the volunteers for stepping up and all those that step up every day. I want to
posthumously thank James Stewart for his guidance, knowledge and kindness and I want to
express my deepest condolences to his family.

Director Saylors thanked Reserves Mark Siebert and Tim White for coming to the Country
Fair and for always showing up for this community. Director Saylors expressed thanks for
having the Board meeting in her District #1.

Director Webber thanked staff for their reports tonight.

Director Wood thanked Board Clerk Marni Rittburg, Art Hong and the IT department, and
Logistics for all the extra work to have this Board meeting off-site at Station 111. Director
Wood stated the Firefighters Burn Institute 50 Year Celebration will take place on Friday,
October 20th at 7 p.m. at The Elks Tower in Sacramento to celebrate 50 years of supporting
the burn community.

 Director Sheetz thanked the crews at Station 111 for their hospitality this evening.

 Dlrector Goold congratulated Chief House as he wasn't present when he was installed as
 Fire Chief.

. President Clark thanked Assistant Chief Chris Greene for the great day at the Capital
  Airshow and for including me in the meeting, it was a wonderful day and show. He thanked
  the men and women of Metro Fire and Chief House for his great leadership.

 A moment of silence was held for Retired Captain James Stewart and Retired Chief Ronny J.
 Coleman.

 To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
 channel:
 https://metrofire.ca.gov/2023-09-28-board-meeting
 https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

 ADJOURNMENT

 The meeting was adjourned at 7:05p.m.


 D'Elman Clark, President                            Ted Wood, Secretary



 Marni Rittburg, CMC, Board Clerk
 9.28.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                         Page 9 of 9




                                                                                                      P14
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


Adam House
 Fire Chief




 DATE:             October 26, 2023

 TO:               Board of Directors

 SUBJECT:          New Board Policy - Meal and Refreshment Policy


                                               TOPIC

 A new Board policy addressing meal and refreshment purchases using District
 resources .

                                           DISCUSSION

 Attached is the new Meal and Refreshment Policy. The Meal and Refreshment Policy
 provides direction to all District employees and members of the Board of Directors on
 the acceptable use and expenditure of District resources for meal and refreshment
 purchases, excluding those pertaining to travel outside of Sacramento County. This
 policy seeks to ensure that food and refreshment purchases are reasonably based on
 a public purpose and are necessary for the conduct of the District's business. The
 new policy is attached.

                                      RECOMMENDATION

  Recommend the Board of Directors approve the Meal and Refreshment Policy for
  implementation.


  Submitted By:                                    Approved By:




  Dave O'Toole                                     Adam House
  Chief Financial Officer                          Fire Chief




                               Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                                P15
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                        BOARD POLICY
POLICY TITLE:     Meal and Refreshment Policy                      OVERSIGHT:      Finance

POLICY NUMBER:    XX.XXX.XX       EFFECTIVE DATE: Xx/xx/xxxx       REVIEW DATE:    Xx/xx/xxxx




 Background

 This policy sets forth the standards to determine what meal and refreshment expenses
 may be paid with Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (District) funds, and describes the
 related approval and payment processes.

 The District and all California government agency meal and refreshment policies are
 guided by the "gift of public funds" law, which is set forth in the California Constitution,
 Article XVI, Section 6. This law prohibits the giving or lending of public funds to any person
 or entity, public or private.

 Purpose

 The purpose of this policy is to provide direction to all District employees and members of
 the Board of Directors (Board) on the acceptable use and expenditure of District resources
 on meal and refreshment purchases except those related to travel outside of Sacramento
 County. A special district through its elected Board may authorize expenditures for a public
 purpose. This Board policy reflects a legislative determination that the expenditures
 described in this policy are reasonably based on a public purpose, and are necessary for
 the conduct of the District's business.


  Scope

 This policy applies to District employees and members of the Board.

 Definitions
  1.     Budgeted Funds: Funds that have been approved in the budget for food
         purchases through the budget approval process.

 2.      Conference: For purposes of this policy, a conference is a meeting that brings
         together participants from various locations, may charge a registration fee, and
         has a published agenda.

 3.      Official Guests: An official guest is a person, not an employee of the District,
         that is invited to a facility or function for a specific purpose that benefits the District.
         Official guests include, but are not limited to, dignitaries, guest speakers, outside
         interview or examination panelists and volunteers. A vendor or contractor is not
         considered an official guest.



                                                                                          ljPa g e


                                                                                                        P16
                                                              Meal and Refreshment Policy
                                                                               xx.xxx.xx
                                                                               Xx/xx/xxxx


4.   Meals and Refreshments: Meals include breakfast, lunch, or dinner, while
     refreshments include beverages (including water bottles), and snacks. Meals and
     refreshments do not include alcohol, which is not an authorized use of District
     funds.

5.   US General Services Administration (GSA): An agency of the federal
     government that sets prescribed per diem rates by city and region in the United
     States.

Policy
1.   General Rule

     a. As a general rule, the District must limit the use of budgeted funds to provide
        meals and refreshments to its employees or other individuals to select
        occasions necessary to achieve the public purpose of the District. Personal
        meals and refreshments, including break time coffee, tea, soda, and meal
        service) are a personal expense that a District employee is expected to bear
        from his or her salary.

2.   Permitted Uses of Public Funds for Meals and Refreshments

      a. Generally speaking, meal and refreshment expenses for internal District
         meetings, including regularly scheduled staff meetings and items for employee
         personal use (e.g., break time coffee, tea, soda, snacks and food service
         supplies normally self-funded or funded by house funds) are not permissible
         uses of District resources. However, there are exceptions when meals and
         refreshments may be provided. In all of the following cases, the cost of the
         meals, including any tips, must conform to the applicable GSA per diem limits
         and funds must be allocated in the division budget for meals and refreshment
         expense. In addition, unless otherwise specified, budgeted funds must only be
         used for meals and refreshments for District employees.

      b. District-Provided Training and Meetings

          i. Meals may be provided to a District employee if the employee is
             participating in a training program or staff retreat with a documented
             agenda so long as:

                A. the training program is ongoing while meals are being served and
                   consumed, and

                 B. there are substantial functions occurring before and after meals are
                    served and consumed.

          ii. On a case-by-case basis, the Fire Chief or their designee in writing may
              approve in advance refreshments special meetings of District staff.


                                                                               2 1Pa ge


                                                                                            P17
                                                           Meal and Refreshment Policy
                                                                            xx.xxx.xx
                                                                            Xx/xx/xxxx


c. Award Ceremonies and Graduations

     i. The District may provide meals and refreshments to attendees, including
        non-District employee and Board attendees, at the annual District-wide
        employee recognition event to honor employees and academy
        graduations.

     ii. GSA purchase limits will not apply provided sufficient budget authority is
         available.

d. Official Guests from Other Agencies

     i. The District may pay for meals and refreshments for official guests from
        other agencies so long as the expenditure contributes materially to the
        achievement of a specific District objective and public purpose, and the
        meal or refreshments occur during the course of meeting with public
        officials on matters related to the business of the District. Meals and
        refreshments provided simply to generally develop morale and working
        relationships are not allowed.

e. Lunch for Interview or Examination Panels

     i. A meal or refreshment for lunch may be brought in for panelists
        participating in interviews or examinations, provided:

        A. the interviews cross the lunch hour and due to timing, staff is not able
           to take their lunch break, and

        B. the lunch break is used to discuss the candidates (i.e., a "working
           lunch").

     ii. The District may also pay for meals and refreshments for official guests
         from other agencies invited to form part of an interview or examination
         panel. Notwithstanding the purchasing limits delineated below, when 12 or
         more panelists are participating in an examination or interview, the General
         Services Administration limit may be exceeded by up to 30 percent if prior
         written approval is obtained by the Fire Chief or their designee in writing.
         This exception is established in recognition that the number of official
         guests on an interview or examination panel may not be known when meals
         and refreshments are ordered.

f.   Meetings with Representatives of Other Agencies

     i. Sharing a meal with regional, state and federal officials is an opportunity
        for a more extensive, focused, and uninterrupted communication about
        District policy matters. The District may pay for meals and refreshments for
        these business meals with the written approval of the Fire Chief or their
        designee in writing, subject to the requirements of paragraph 2 (c)(i).

                                                                           3 jP age


                                                                                         P18
                                                                Meal and Refreshm ent Policy
                                                                                  xx.xxx.xx
                                                                                 Xx/xx/xxxx



     g. Emergencies

          i. Meal and refreshment purchases may be permitted under emergency
             circumstances. Emergencies are only those where the provision of meals
             and refreshments is incidental to the protection of human life or property in
             the course of an extended incident.

          ii. Emergency circumstances do not include situations where employees are
              only required to remain on duty beyond their regular working hours.

          iii. The decision to treat an incident as an emergency meriting meal and
               refreshment purchase will be in accordance with procedures adopted by
               the Operations Branch and, at a minimum will, be determined by an
               Assistant Chief. Supplying apparatuses with water bottles for emergencies
               is always permitted.

     h. Board Meetings

           i. The District's Board of Directors meets at a time intended to be convenient
              for the general public. Meetings routinely span the normal dinner hour and
              later into evening. Serving meal and refreshments to board members and
              staff required to attend the regularly scheduled board meetings is
              permissible.

     i.   Volunteer Events

           i. District funds may be used to pay for meals or refreshments necessary to
              provide for the needs of volunteers while working at or participating in an
              event authorized by the District, including volunteer appreciation events.
              Documentation is required on who was provided the meals and for what
              purpose.

     j.   District-Sponsored Events

           i. Meals and refreshment purchases may be permitted for District-sponsored
              public events such as Fire Camp and media events.

          ii. GSA purchase limits will not apply provided sufficient budget authority is
              available.

     k. Water

           i. District employees shall have unfettered access to water provided at
              District expense.

3.   Other Circumstances

     a. On a case-by-case basis, any other expenditure for meals and refreshments
        not specifically identified in this policy may be approved by the Fire Chief or
                                                                                 41.Pag e


                                                                                               P19
                                                                Meal and Refreshment Policy
                                                                                 xx.xxx.xx
                                                                                 Xx/xx/xxxx


        their designee in writing, if determined to be reasonable, have a valid public
        purpose, further the mission of the District and are deemed necessary to further
        specific policy goals and operational matters of the District.

4.   Gratuities and Tips

     a. When a meal expense is allowed, a gratuity up to 15 percent of the charge is
        acceptable as long as it is within the allowable meal allowance based on the
        GSA limits. Any tip given over 15 percent is not allowed and the difference must
        be paid for, or reimbursed by, the employee that incurred the expense. The 15
        percent limit does not apply when the establishment adds a service charge in
        lieu of gratuity. In that case, the amount of the service charge is not within the
        control of the customer.

5.   Budget Constraints

     a. Under no circumstances may funds be spent for meals and refreshments in
        excess of the responsible division's budget.

Procedures
1.   Responsibility

     a. It is the responsibility of each employee and manager to ensure only prudent
        and. appropriate expenditures of District funds. Additionally, it is the
        responsibility of the approver of food and refreshment expenditures to ensure
        that the purchase was necessary and provides a direct benefit to the District
        and its constituents.

2.   Expense Report Content and Submission Deadline

     a. All expense reimbursement requests for meal and refreshment costs must be
        submitted on a Miscellaneous Expense Reimbursement Form. Expense
        reports must document that the expense in question met the requirements of
        this policy. Expense reimbursement requests must be submitted within 30
        days of an expense being incurred, accompanied by receipts documenting
        each expense.

     b. Regardless of how the purchase was made (e.g., District-issued credit card or
        check, or out-of-pocket), the documentation for meals or refreshments must
        specify the following:

         i. For whom the meals or refreshments were purchased

         ii. Business reason (e.g., issues discussed, promotional interview, etc.)

        iii. Specific exception claimed in the policy (e.g., Section 2.c, "Award
             Ceremonies and Graduations")

                                                                                S I Pa ge


                                                                                              P20
                                                                  Meal and Refreshment Policy
                                                                                   xx.xxx.xx
                                                                                   Xx/xx/xxxx



     c. Failure to provide such documentation in a timely fashion may result in the
        expense being paid by the employee.

3.   Purchase Limits

     a. Unless otherwise specified in this policy, all meals must follow the appropriate
        GSA limits. Information regarding GSA standards, limits, or requirements can
        be obtained from the District's Finance Division and any questions regarding
        any expenditure should be directed to the Finance Division before the expense
        is incurred.

4.   Violation of This Policy

     a. Violation of this policy may result in any or all of the following:

         i. Loss of reimbursement privileges / credit card privileges

         ii. Demand for restitution to the district

        iii. District reporting the expenses as taxable income to the employee to state
             and federal tax authorities

        iv. Internal disciplinary action

5.   Examples

     a. The following are illustrative examples of when a meal or refreshments may be
        provided or reimbursed by the District. It is not an exhaustive list:

         i. An employee attends a meeting of a local professional organization that
            meets once monthly for a seminar at a local restaurant. A registration fee
            is paid to the professional organization, which includes a meal.

         ii. A department has been working on the new project all day and, due to
             unforeseen difficulties, several hours of work remain before they are done.
             There is little time available in the coming week th at allows for completion
             of the project. The division manager has dinner delivered as staff works
             through the evening in order to complete the budget.

        iii. A natural disaster occurs which results in activation of the Emergency
             Operations Center (EOC). Staff is required to be at the center around-the-
             clock. Meals are brought in to the EOC for those on duty.

        iv. A meeting that takes place over an extended period and the event agenda
            includes a working meal where there is a scheduled speaker during the
            meal period or the participants work through the meal period.


                                                                                  6 I Pa g e



                                                                                                P21
                                                                Meal and Refreshment Policy
                                                                                 xx.xxx.xx
                                                                                 Xx/xx/xxxx


          v. An all-day training program is sponsored by the District (such as the L-280),
             when providing lunch during the program will enhance the objective of the
             program and the participants work through the meal.

References
1. Purchases of meals and refreshments related to travel outside of Sacramento County
   is covered by Travel and Conference Policy #01.013.01

2. www.GSA.gov/travel/plan-book/per-diem-rates.




                                                                                71Page


                                                                                              P22
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545_ Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (91 6) 859-4300 • Fax (91 6) 859-3702



ADAM HOUSE
 Fire Chief


   DATE:        October 26, 2023

   TO:          Board of Directors

   SUBJECT:     Authority to Reenter into an Agreement with State of California Department
                of Health Care Services for Intergovernmental Transfers from January 1,
                2022 to December 31, 2022

                                               TOPIC

   Reauthorize the Fire Chief to enter into an intergovernmental agreement to transfer public
   funds to the State of California Department of Health Care Services (DHCS), which is
   necessary to participate in the Voluntary Rate Range Program (VRRP) Intergovernmental
   Transfer (IGT), a federal reimbursement program, for eligible medical transports between
   January 1, 2022 and December 31 , 2022.

                                           DISCUSSION

   Beginning in Fiscal Year 2014/15, the District has participated in the VRRP IGT to receive
   federal funds associated with the District's transport of Medi-Cal managed care
   beneficiaries. Participation in the VRRP requires the District annually to enter into an
   agreement with the DHCS and each of the participating managed care plans (Plans),
   currently Aetna, Anthem, Health Net, Kaiser, and Molina.

   The proposed agreement covers the 12-month period of transports between January 1,
   2022 through December 31, 2022.

    The DHCS agreement is substantially similar to those entered into in previous fiscal
    years.

                                         FISCAL IMPACT

    No impact. This agreement does not change the current, FY 2023/24 budgeted IGT
    revenue of $9.7 million.


                                       RECOMMENDATION

    Staff recommends that the Board approve the attached resolution reauthorizing the Fire
    Chief to enter into the necessary agreement with DHCS to participate in the VRRP IGT
    covering the period January 1, 2022 through December 31 , 2022.


                                Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                             P23
Submitted By:



Dave O'Toole                                    Adam House
Chief Financial Officer                         Fire Chief




                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                   P24
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief



                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2023"XXX

     A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
    ADOPTING AUTHORITY FOR THE FIRE CHIEF TO ENTER INTO SPECIFIED
    INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE STATE DEPARTMENT OF
                        HEALTH CARE SERVICES


          WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political
   subdivision of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant
   to the State constitution and laws; and

           WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (hereinafter referred to as
   District) participates in the Voluntary Rate Range Program (VRRP) to receive federal
   funding associated with transport of Medi-Cal managed care beneficiaries; and

          WHEREAS, participation in the VRRP for the period January 1, 2022 through
   December 31, 2022 is expected to result in an estimated $9,700,000 in net new funds to
   the District; and

          WHEREAS, participation in the VRRP requires entering into an agreement with
   the State of California Department of Health Care Services (DHCS).

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the
   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, as follows:

       1.       The Fire Chief or his designee as its Authorized Agent(s) is authorized to enter
                into and execute the intergovernmental agreement regarding transfer of public
                funds with DHCS.




                                  Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties                                   P25
RESOLUTION NO. 2023-XXX
Page2


        PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 26 th day of OCTOBER 2023. I,
MARNI RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE
DISTRICT HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a
regular meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll
call vote:

AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:


                                  SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                  By: - -- - -- -- - - - - --
                                      President, Board of Directors

ATTEST:


Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board




                                                                                           P26
                      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   1           I
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~u,~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief

       DATE:          October 26, 2023
       TO:            Board of Directors
       SUBJECT:       Contract Award " Owner Advisor (Zinfandel Phase 3 Buildout Project)
                                                    TOPIC
       Request to approve a contract award to Abercrombie Planning+Design to serve as Owner
       Advisor for the Zinfandel Phase 3 Buildout project.
                                               BACKGROUND
       The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's (District) Board of Directors has adopted Resolution
       2023-065 which determined that it was in the best interest of the District to use the design-build
       construction delivery method for the Zinfandel Phase 3 Build out project (Project).
                                                   DISCUSSION
       In order to meet District needs, staff recommends retaining a consultant to serve as an Owner
       Advisor to advise the District and facilitate the successful completion of the Project. Engaging
       an Owner Advisor is recognized by the Design Build Institute of American as a best practice for
       design-build projects. The consultant's primary role as Owner Advisor is to ensure that the
       Project is completed on time, within budget, and to the highest quality standards, meeting the
       District's objectives and expectations. The Owner Advisor will be responsible for preparation of
       design criteria documents to be included in the District's solicitation and will represent the
       District's interests to the design-build team for the duration of the Project.
       The proposed consultant, Abercrombie Planning+Design, is uniquely qualified to provide such
       services due to previous substantial involvement in the development of the earlier phases of the
       Project as well as the extensive participation in public safety training facility projects around the
       world. The consultant's institutional knowledge and involvement with the project cannot be
       matched. For this reason, staff has submitted a Request for Exception to Formal Solicitation
       Process, in accordance with the District's Purchasing and Contracting Policy. The proposed
       contract will meet the District's needs at a reasonable cost that is comparable to previous
       competitively bid contracts for design services and construction management services. .
                                              FISCAL IMPACT
       The cost of the proposed services is $150,000 and is included in the project budget.
                                           RECOMMENDATION
       Staff recommends the Board adopt a resolution to approve the Request for Exception to Formal
       Solicitation Process and award a contract to Abercrombie Planning+Design.
                                                             Approved by:
                                                              (~            •




       ATTACHMENTS:
       Attachment 1: Request for Exception to Formal Solicitation Process
       Attachment 2: Resolution - Contract Award - Owner Advisor


                                      Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                                P27
                          Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                          HEADQUARTERS: 10545 Armstrong Ave. , Mather, CA, 95655 , Phone (916) 859-4300 , Fax (916) 859-3702
                          Website: www.metrofire.ca.gov
                          PURCHASING: 3012 Gold Canal Or., Rancho Cordova, CA, 95670, Phone (916)859-4360, Fax (916) 859-3729

        ADAM A. HOUSE
          Fire Chief

                        REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS
                                                and
                                       DISCLOSURE STATEMENT

Purchase Description: Owner Advisor for Design-Build Project (Consu lting Services)

Proposed Vendor:            Abercrombie Planning+Design


Estimated Total Cost: $ 150,000

This form must accompany the vendor quote document whenever an exception to the formal solicitation
process is requested. State and local laws subject the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District to competitive
bidding rules. Requests for goods and/or services from a specific vendor or that are limited to a specific
brand, where substitutes to the recommended vendor or brand are not in the best interest of the
District, must be accompanied by a written justification explaining the circumstances that make alternatives
unacceptable. The employee signing the justification must disclose in writing whether or not they have a
potential or actual conflict of interest. Metro Fire employees who have a business relationship with or
financial or personal interest in the recommended vendor must disclose the conflict of interest. Any
employee with an actual or potential conflict of interest may not participate in the purchase decision.

The Purchasing Agent and branch Deputy Chief will determine whether the justification is appropriate.
Requests for exceptions to the formal solicitation process must be supported by factual statements that will
pass an audit and must be submitted to the Board of Directors for final review and approval.

1. Please check all applicable categories below and provide additional information where indicated.

 D a. The requested product is an integral repair part or accessory compatible with existing equipment.
                 Existing Equipment:

                 Manufacturer/Model Number:

                 Age:

                 Current Estimated Value:

 □ b. The requested product has unique design/performance specifications or quality requirements that
           are not available in comparable products.

           I have standardized the requested product, and the use of another brand/model would require
           considerable time and funding to evaluate.



                                                                                                                                P28
                              REQUEST FOR E}CCEPTION TO FORM AL SOLICITATION PROCESS AND DISCLOSURE STATEM ENT

 D d. The requested product is one in which I (and/or my staff) have specialized training and/or extensive
                 expertise. Retraining would incur substantial cost in time and/or funding.


 □ e. The requested product is used or demonstration equipment available at a low er-than-new cost.
 □ f.            Repair/Maintenance service is available only from the manufacturer or designated service
                 representative.

 D g. Upgrade to or enhancement of existing software is available only from the manufacturer.
 I✓ I h. Service proposed by vendor is unique, therefore, competitive bids are not available or applicable.
 D i. Other factors
2. Provide a detailed explanation and pertinent documentation for each category checked in Section 1 above.
     Attach additional sheets if necessary:
     The District is in need of a con sultant to provide design criteria documents and act on behalf of the District as an owner advisor for the
     Zinfandel Phase 3 Buildout design-build project. The proposed consultant is uniquely qualified to provide such services due to his
     previous substantial involvement in the development of the earlier phases of the project as well as his extensive participation in publtc
     safety training facility projects around the world. His institutional knowledge and involvement with the project cannot be matched.
     Proposed cost and hourly rates are reasonable and comparable to previous competitively bid contracts for design services and
     construction management services.


3. Was an evaluation of other equipment, products, or services performed ?                                     D Yes                [Z] No
     If yes, please provide all supporting documentation.

4.   List below th e name of each individual who was involved in th e evaluation, if conduct ed, and/or in making
     the recommendation to procure this product or service. Attach additional information if necessary. Each
     individual must submit a completed and signed Disclosure Statement {attached).
            1. Erin Castleberry                                      2. Jeff Frye


            3.                                                       4.

I certify that the above information is accurate to the best of my knowledge, and a signed copy of this
document will be kept on file and available for audit in my department.




                       u C 64---
                      ex_"A/i                                                    Chief Developm ent Officer
                              ~-· - -
                            D\,       Signature                                        Budget Officer Title

                       Jeff Frye                                                        10/19/23
                                    Printed Name                                                 Date

                                                                   Approval


                                                                                 Ty Bailey                        10/19/23

                   Branch Deputy Chief Signature                                     Printed Name                       Date p a g e 2 I 3



 Rev 9/23
                                                                                                                                                   P29
        obercrombie
        PLANNING+DESIGN
abercrombie Planning + Design is a planning and design consulting firm that specializes in the
research, programming, and design of state-of-the-art public safety facilities.

Providing services from initial research and programming to overseeing design concepts through
to construction, abercrombie Planning+ Design works with a select group of architects, engineers,
and designers to provide an unprecedented array of specialized professional experience.

Owner/Principal Tommy Abercrombie, PhD started abercrombie Planning+ Design on the idea
that successful design solutions come from a strong understanding of the human elements of
design. A professional public safety officer and educator for over 29 years, Dr. Abercrombie brings
a unique understanding of the public safety-training education environment. This experience,
combined with his research background in Human Environmental Science-Architectural Studies,
allows him to clearly understand the design problem while creating solutions that redefine the
standard in public safety design.

Small Firm-Large Network
All too often the person who makes a firm desirable for a project is not the person you end up
working with. We believe you hire us for the unique background and experience of our key players
and thus you should have the expectation that these key players will be involved with your project
throughout. The global reach of our selected partners provides the ability to handle large-scale
projects with the personal attention of a small firm.

Research
abercrombie Planning + Design utilizes a strong research background to generate verifiable data
that becomes the foundation of any project. This information ranges from complex needs analysis
to business and operational pla1ming.

Programming
Many times the most overlooked aspect of a project, programming is crucial to a successful design.
Too often the process becomes a repackaging of information the client already knows. abercrombie
Planning+ Design utilizes a unique programming process that defines and clarifies the functional
requirements of the proposed facility. This process yields a much stronger foundation for the
design development effort and ultimately improves the usability of the constructed facility.

Design
From initial concept design to working with design architects through construction, abercrombie
Planning + Design has a proven track record of producing innovative and successful design
collaborations that exceed the clients expectations. We believe each project is unique and strive to
respond to this belief by avoiding the pre-packaged design approach too often utilized.




                                                                                                       P30
Professional Summary
Tommy L. Abercrombie, PhD
35080ve11onParkDr. W. • F011Worth, Texas 76109
Phone 817-229-2646 • E-mail tommy@abercrombiedesign.com


Work experience
                                                                                                     1996
abe1·crombiePlanning+ Design• FortWor·th, Texas
Owner/Principal
Public Safety Design Co11s11lta11t
Selected Projects/Client List:
• Chicago Police and Fire Public Safety Training Academy- Chicago, Illinois
• Fort Wo1th Police and Fire Training Center - Foti Worth, Texas
• Oklahoma City Fire and Pol ice Training Center - Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
• Western Australia Department ofFire and Emergency Services Training Center-Pe1th, Australia
• Owasso Fire Depatiment Headqua1ters and Public Safety Training Center - Owasso, Oklahoma
• San Francisco Fire Deprutment Training Center- Srut Francisco, California
• Fresno Fire Depruiment Regional Training Center- Fresno California
• London Ontru'io Fire and Police Training Center- London Ontru-io, Canada
• Austin Commw1ity College Public Safety Training Academy - Austin, Texas
• New South Wales Fire Training Academy- Sydney, Australia
• Sioux Falls Public Safety Training Center- Sioux Falls, South Dakota
• Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Technical Rescue Training Academy - Sacramento, California
• Prince George's County Public Safety Training Center- Prince George's County Mruyland
• Montgome1y County Public Safety Training Academy- Montgome1y County Ma1yland
• Hayward Fire Depmtment/Chabot College Fire Training Center- Hayward, California
• Alameda County Fire Training Center-Alameda County, Califomia




                                                                                                            P31
Tarrant County College• Fort Worth, Texas                                                                               1992 - 2014

Coordinator ofSpecial Projects/I'eclmical Adviser, Fire Service Training Center
• Led the development of a 20 million dollar state-of-the-art fire service training facility that was the largest computer controlled
  gas fired training facility in the United States. Responsible for all aspects ofthe facility including initial concept, business plan,
  and construction oversight. The 23-acre facility consists ofa 48,000 square foot high tech classroom and administration building
  coupled with a multi hazard disaster city complete with man-made raging river. This highly integrated facility is one of the most

  technologically advanced emergency service training facilities in the world.


 Ft. WorthFit'eDepartment• FortWorth, Texas                                                                          1994-2019

Lieutenant


Education
 University of Missouri• Columbia, Missouri                                                                                      2011

• PhD Human Environmental Science-Architectural Studies
 Texas Christian University• Fort Worth, Texas                                                                                    2004

 Master ofLiberal Arts
 University of Oklahoma• Nm·man, Oklahoma                                                                                         2001

 Bachelor ofLiberal Studies
 Tarrant County Junior College• Fort Worth, Texas                                                                                 1998

 Associate ofApplied Science, Fire Protection Technology




                                                                                                                                      P32
                           REQUEST FOR El(CEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT



                                       DISCLOSURE STATEMENT TO ACCOMPANY
                               REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS


When submitting a request for an exception to the formal solicitation process, each individual involved in
evaluating and/or in making a recommendation to purchase the proposed good/service must complete, sign,
and submit this Disclosure Statement. Filing an annual statement of economic interest does not exempt
an employee from this requirement. Attach additional information if necessary.

Purchase Description: Owner Advisor for Design-Build Project
                                                      ,      (Consulting Services)

Proposed Vendor:       Abercrombie Planning+Design

   1. Please list any income or gifts you received from this vendor during the past 12 months:
        None

   2. Please list any financial interests (stocks, shares, investments, etc.) you have in this vendor:

        None
   3. Do you have any other type of business or personal relationship with this vendor?

        None
   4. To the best of your knowledge, does any member of your departmental staff have a busin ess or
        personal relationship with this vendor?
        None
   5. Do you or any of your near relatives have any financial or personal interest in this vendor? If yes,
        please describe.
         None
   6. Please provide any additional information you believe should be disclosed at this time:

         N/A


I certify that the above information is accurate to the best of my knowledge, and a signed copy of this
document will be l<ept on file and available for audit in my department.

             ~~                                                      Administrative Analyst
                      ~                                                             Title

         Erin Castleberry                                                      10/19/23

                    Printed Name                                                     Date

                                                                                                   P a g e 3l3



  Rev 9/23                                                                                                       P33
                           REQUEST FOR E}(CEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT



                                      DISCLOSURE STATEMENT TO ACCOMPANY
                              REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS


When submitting a request for an exception to the formal solicitation process, each individual involved in
evaluating and/or in making a recommendation to purchase the proposed good/service must complete,· sign,
and submit this Disclosure Statement. Filing an annual statement of economic interest does not exempt
an employee from this requirement. Attach additional information if necessary.

Purchase Description: Owner Advisor for Design-Build Project (Consulting Services)

Proposed Vendor:       Abercrombie Planning+Design

   1. Please list any income or gifts you received from this vendor during the past 12 months:
        None

   2. Please list any financial interests (stocks, shares, investments, etc.) you have in this vendor:

        None

   3. Do you have any other type of business or personal relationship with this vendor?

        None
   4. To the best of your knowledge, does any member of your departmental staff have a business or
       personal relationship with this vendor?
        None

    5. Do you or any of your near relatives have any financial or personal interest in this vendor? If yes,
        please describe.
        None

    6. Please provide any additional information you believe should be disclosed at this time:
        NIA


I certify that the above information is accurate to the best of my knowledge, and a signed copy of this
document will be kept on file and available for audit in my department.
                                                                     Chief Development Officer
         ~1' [ ~I;-- ·
       - l,     V      Signature                                                    Title

        Jeff Frye                                                              10/19/23

                    Printed Name                                                      Date

                                                                                                   P ag e 3l3



  Rev 9/23                                                                                                      P34
            Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Professional Services Agreement

This Agreement, dated as of October 26, 2023 is by and between the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District ("DISTRICT") a Special District formed pursuant to Health and Safety Code §13800, and
Abercrombie Planning+Design ("CONSULTANT") are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Parties".
The Agreement will be effective upon approval by the DISTRICT's _Board of Directors and final execution
by the Parties.

                                                RECITALS

WHEREAS, the DISTRICT intends to complete the Zinfandel First Responder Train ing Facility Phase 3
Buildout construction project, "Project"; and

WHEREAS, the DISTRICT desires to obtain the services of CONSULTANT to serve as an Owner Advisor to
the DISTRICT, as more fu lly described in Exhibit A hereto, "Scope of Services"; and

WHEREAS, CONSULTANT is professionally qualified to provide such services and is willing to provide such
services to DISTRICT on the terms and conditions set forth herein.

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follow;

1.      HEADINGS
        Headings herein are for convenience of reference on ly and shall in no way affect interpretation
        of the Agreement.

2.      EXHIBITS
        Exhibits A and Bare attached hereto and incorporated herein as if set forth in fu ll.

3.      SCOPE OF SERVICES
        CONSU LTANT agrees to perform all services described in Exhibit A, for payment pursuant to Exhibit
        B, in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

        CONSULTANT shall furnish all equipment, tools, vehicles, facilities, supplies, materials, labor, and
        skill necessary to perform in a satisfactory manner the services described herein, in accordance
        with applicable law and the terms and conditions described herein.

4.      TERM
        This Agreement shall be in effect from the date of final execution by the Parties until full
        completion of the Project as described in Exhibit A. Terms and conditions, which relate to
        indemnification and other related matters, shall continue in effect after expiration of this
        Agreement.

s.      PAYMENT
        For services performed in accordance with the Agreement, payments will be made to
        CONSULTANT as provided in Exhibit B hereto.

6.      TAXES
        Payment of all applicable federal, state, and local taxes shall be the sole responsibility of the
        CONSULTANT.

                                                                                                P a g e 1 I 14


                                                                                                                 P35
7.   INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR
     No relationship of employer and employee is created by this Agreement; it being understood and
     agreed that CO NSULTANT is at all times an independent contractor, and can perform work for
     others. CONSULTANT is not the agent or employee of th e DISTRICT in any capacity whatsoever
     and DISTRICT shall not be liable in any manner for any acts or omissions by CONSULTANT or for
     any obligations or liabilities incurred by CONSULTANT, his employees, or agents.

     CONSULTANT shall have no claim under this Agreement or otherwise, for seniority, vacation time,
     vacation pay, sick leave, personal time off, health insurance medical care, hospital ca re,
     retirement benefits, social security, disability, workers' compensation, or unemployment
     insurance benefits, civil service protection, or employee benefits of any kind.

     CONSULTANT shall be solely liable for and obligated to pay directly all applicable payroll taxes
     (including federal and state income t axes) or contributions for unemployment insurance or old
     age pensions or annuities which are imposed by any governmental entity in connection with the
     labor used or which are measured by wages, sa laries or other remuneration paid to its officers,
     agents or employees, and CONSULTANT agrees to indemnify and hold DISTRICT harmless from
     any and all liability which DISTRICT may incur because of CONSULTANT's failure to pay such
     amounts.

     In carrying outtheworkcontemplated herein, CONSULTANT shall comply with all applicable federal
     and state workers' compensation and liability laws and regulations with respect to the officers,
     agents and/or employees conducting and participating in the work; and agrees that such officers,
     agents, and/or employees will be considered as independent contractors and shall not be treated
     or considered in any way as officers, agents, and/or employees of DISTRICT.

     CONSULTANT shall perform all services required pursuant to this Agreement in th e manner and
     according to the standards observed by a competent practitioner of the profession in which
     CONSULTANT is engaged in the geographical area in which the CONSULTANT practices its
     profession.

     Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the DISTRICT in its discretion determines that pursuant to state
     and federal law CONSULTANT is an employee for purposes of income tax withholding, DISTRICT may
     upon two (2) weeks' notice to CONSULTANT, withhold from payments otherwise due to
     CONSULTANT hereunder federal and state income t axes and to pay said sums to the federal and
     stat e governments.

8.   CONFLICT OF INTEREST
     CONSULTANT covenants that he presently has no interest, and shall not obtain any interest, direct
     or indirect, which would conflict in any manner with the performance of services required under
     this Agreement, including but not limited to any provision of services to any federal, state or local
     regulatory or other public agency which has any interest adverse or potentially adve rse to th e
     DISTRICT, as determined in the reasonable judgment of the Board of Directors of the DISTRICT.
     Entering into this agreement does not preclude CONSULTANT from working for others as long as
     CONSULTANT ensures that such work does not constitute a conflict of interest.

9.   INDEMNIFICATION
     To the greatest extent permitted by California law, CONSULTANT shall indemnify, defend and hold
     harmless the DISTRICT, its officers, directors, officials, employees, consultant s, and volunteers

                                                                                           P a g e 2 I 14



                                                                                                             P36
from and against any and all liability claims, losses, damages, costs, attorneys' fees arising from
all acts or omissions of CONSULTANT or its officers, agents, or employees in rendering services
under this contract. This obligation is independent of and shall not in any way be limited by the
minimum insurance obligations contained in this agreement. These obligations shall survive the
completion or termination of this agreement. These losses include but are not limited work
arising out of, resulting from, or relating to the following:

    a) The failure of CONSULTANT or its subcontractors to perform its obligations under this
       Agreement;
    b) The inaccuracy of any representation or warranty given by CONSULTANT or its
       subcontractors;
    c) Any claim of damage or loss by any subcontractor against the DISTRICT arising out of any
       alleged act or omission of CONSULTANT or any other subcontractor, or anyone directly or
       indirectly employed by CONSULTANT or any subcontractor.

The DISTRICT shall not be liable or responsible for any accidents, loss, injury (including death) or
damages happening or accruing during the term of the performance of the work herein referred
to or in connection therewith, to persons and/or property, and CONSULTANT shall fully indemnify,
defend and hold harmless the DISTRICT and protect the DISTRICT from and against the same as
provided above. In addition to the liability imposed by law upon CONSULTANT for damage or
injury (including death) to persons or property by reason of the negligence, recklessness or willful
misconduct of CONSULTANT, its officers, agents, employees/ or subcontractors, which liability is
not impaired or otherwise affected hereby, CONSULTANT shall defend, indemnify, hold harmless,
release and forever discharge the DISTRICT, its officers, directors, officials, employees,
consultants, and volunteers from and against and waive any and all responsibility of same for
every expense, liability, or payment by reason of any damage or injury (including death) to
persons or property suffered or claimed to have been suffered through any negligent act,
omission, recklessness or willful misconduct of CONSULTANT, its officers, agents, employees, or
any of its subcontractors, or anyone directly or indirectly employed by either of them or from the
condition of the premises or any part of the premises while in control of CONSULTANT, its officers,
agents, employees, or any of its subcontractors or anyone directly or indirectly employed by
either of them, arising out of the performance of the work called for by this Agreement.

CONSULTANT agrees that this indemnity and hold harmless shall apply even in the event of
negligence of the DISTRICT, its officers, directors, officials, employees, consultants, and volunteers
regardless of whether such negligence is contributory to any claim, demand, loss, damage, injury,
expense, and/or liability; but such indemnity and hold harmless shall not apply in the event of the
sole or active negligence of the DISTRICT, its officers, directors, officials, employees, consultants,
and volunteers.

In claims against any person or entity indemnified under this section that are made by an
employee of CONSULTANT or any subcontractor, a person indirectly employed by CONSULTANT
or any subcontractor, or anyone for whose acts CONSULTANT or any subcontractor may be liable,
the indemnification obligation under this section shall not be limited by any limitation on amount
or type of damages, compensation, or benefits payable by or for CONSULTANT or any
subcontractor under workers' compensation acts, disability benefit acts, or other employee
benefit acts.




                                                                                       P a g e 3 I 14


                                                                                                         P37
      The indemnification obligations under this section shall not be limited by any assertion or finding
      that the person or entity indemnified is liable by reason of a non-delegable duty.

      CONSULTANT shall indemnify the DISTRICT from and against losses resulting from any claim of
      damage made by any separate contractor against the DISTRICT arising out of a_ny alleged acts or
      omissions of CONSULTANT, any subcontractor, anyone directly or indirectly employed by either
      of them, or anyone for whose acts either of them may be liable.

      CONSULTANT shall indemnify separate contractors from and against losses arising out of the
      negligent acts, omissions, or willful misconduct of CONSULTANT, any subcontractor, anyone
      directly or indirectly employed by either of them, or anyone for whose acts either of them may
      be liable.

      The DISTRICT shall provide to CONSULTANT rea sonably, timely notification of the receipt of any
      third party claim relating to this Agreement.

      These indemnity provisions shall survive any t ermination of the Agreement and/or the final
      performance of the Agreement by CONSULTANT.

10.   LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
      Under no circumstances will CONSULTANT be entitled to consequential damages for any loss of
      profit or damage to reputation. Under no circumstances will CONSULTANT be permitted to limit
      their liability to an amount less than one million ($1,000,000.00) dollars. Under no circumstances
      will CONSULTANT be entitled to limit special or consequential damages claimed by the DISTRICT.
      In the event of breach of this Agreement, the DISTRICT shall be entitled to any and all damages,
      or legal or equitable remedy, available under law.

11.   NON-DISCRIMINATION
      No person will be excluded from participation in, be denied benefits of, be discriminated against
      in the admission or access to, or be discriminated against in treatment or employment in the
      DISTRICT's contracted programs or activities on the grounds of disability, age, race, color, religion,
      sex, national origin, or any other classification protected by federal or California State
      Constitutional or statutory law; nor will th ey be excluded from participation in, be denied benefits
      of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination in the performance of contracts with the DISTRICT
      or in the employment practices of the DISTRICT's contractors. Accordingly, CONSULTANT will,
      upon request, be required to show proof of such nondiscrimination and to post in conspicuous
      places, available to all employees and applicants, notices of nondiscrimination.

12.   CONFORMITY WITH LAW AND SAFETY
      In performing services under this Agreement, CONSULTANT shall observe and comply with all
      applicable laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations of governmental agencies, including federal,
      state, municipal, and local governing bodies, having jurisdiction over the scope of services
      provided by CONSULTANT.

13.   LICENSES, PERMITS, AND ELIGIBILITY
      CONSULTANT shall possess and maintain all necessary licenses, permits, certificates, and
      credentials required by the laws of th e United Stat es, the State of California, the County of
      Sacramento, and all other appropriate governmental agencies, including any certification and
      credentials required by the DISTRICT.

                                                                                             P a g e 4 j 14


                                                                                                               P38
      CONSULTANT further certifies to the DISTRICT that it and its principals are not debarred,
      suspended, or otherwise excluded from or ineligible for participation in federal, state, or county
      government contracts.

14.   COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE CODES AND REGULATIONS
      Any design drawings and t echnical specifications shall be prepared in full compliance with the
      latest editions (at time of agreement) of all applicable federal, state, and local codes and
      regulations, including but not limited to the following:
          a) California Title 8 (Industrial Relations)
          b) California Title 17 (Public Health)
          c) California Building Code, Title 24, Parts 1-5
          d) California Energy Code, Title 24, Part 6
          e) California Essential Services Building Seismic Safety Act of 1986
          f) Ca lifornia Fire Code, Tit le 24, Part 9
          g) National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)
          h) Federal Americans With Disability Act (ADA)
          i) Local jurisdiction codes and regulations

15.   USE OF DISTRICT PROPERTY
      CONSULTANT shall not use DISTRICT pro perty (including equipment, instruments, and supplies)
      or personnel for any purpose other than in t he performance of his obligations under this
      Agreement.

16.   INSURANCE
      CONSULTANT shall furnish to the DISTRICT a certificate evidencing the insurance coverages
      out lined below. Copies of required endorsements must be attached to the provided certificates.
      It is the responsibility of the CONSULTANT to notify its insurance advisor or insurance carrier(s)
      regarding coverage, limits, forms, and other insurance requirements specified below. All
      documents must be received and approved by the DISTRICT prior to the commencement of any
      services. Please note, the required coverages outlined below shall not limit the amount of
      coverage provided, but shall be t he minimum requirements a·cceptable to the DISTRICT.

      General Liability- shall be on an Occurrence basis, not a Claims Made basis. Minimum limits and
      structure shall be:
          a) General Liability Aggregate:                  $2,000,000
          b) Products Comp/Op Aggregate:                   $2,000,000
          c) Personal & Adv Injury:                        $1,000,000
          d) Each Occurrence:                              $1,000,000
          e) Fire Damage:                                  $100,000

      Automobile Liability
         a) Commercial Automobile Liability (for corporate/business owned vehicles, including non-
            owned and hired ve hicles) - $1,000,000 Com bi ned Single Limit
         b) Personal Lines Automobile Liability (for individu ally owned vehicles) - $250,000 per
            person, $500,000 each accident, $100,000 property damage

      Workers' Compensation and Employer's Liability
          a) Per Statut e

                                                                                          Pa g e 5 I 14


                                                                                                           P39
            b) $1,000,000 per accident for each accident
            c) $1,000,000 for disease
            d) This policy shall be endorsed to waive t he insurers' subrogation rights against the
               DISTRICT.

        Professional Liability
            a) Professional Liability or Errors and Omissions Liability: $1,000,000 per claim and
                aggregate.

        Additi onal Insu red
           a) The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, its officers, directors, officials, employees,
                 agents, and volunteers are to be endorsed as additional insureds, except as to coverage
                 for professional liability, with respect to liabi lity arising out of activities performed by' or
                 on behalfofthe CONSULTANT, products and completed operations of the CONSULTANT,
                 premises owned, occupied or used by the CONSULTANT, or automobiles owned, leased,
                 hired, or borrowed by the CONSULTANT. The coverage sha ll contain no endorsed
                 limitations on the scope of protection afforded to the DISTRICT, its officers, directors,
                 officials, employees, agents, or vo lunteers.

        Insu rance policies shall include a provision for the DISTRICT to be given 30 days prior written
        notice of cancellation and 30 days w ritten notice of any material change(s) requested by the policy
        holder of said insura nce policies. CONSULTANT shall furnish docum ent ary evidence of such
        policies and the renewal or continuance of such insurances within 10 business days of any
        expiration date(s) thereof during the life of the Agreement.

        The DISTRICT w ill not be responsible for any deductible that may apply in any of the said insurance
        policies.

        CONSULTANT covenants and agrees that the DISTRICT's insurance requirements shall not be
        construed to and in no manner limit or restrict t he liability of the CONSULTANT.

        Certificates of Insurance sha ll be sent to:
        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
        Attn: Purchasing Division
        3012 Gold Canal Drive
        Rancho Cordova, CA 95670
        (916) 859-4372
        or
        purchasing@metrofire.ca .gov

  17.   l<EY PERSONNEL
        Substitution or replacement of any key personnel requires the written approval of t he DISTRICT
        and such approval will be at the sole discretion of the DISTRICT.

18.     RIGHT TO REFUSE PERSONNEL
        The DISTRICT reserves the right t o refuse, at its sole discretion, any subcontractors or any
        personnel provided by the CONS ULTANT or its subcontractors. The DISTRICT reserves the right to
        interview and approve all proposed staff members. CONSU LTANT's staff and/or subcontractors
        may be subject to the DISTRICT's background and drug testing processes at any time.

                                                                                                   Pa g e 6 I 14


                                                                                                                     P40
19.   ASSIGNMENT AND SUBCONTRACTING
      This Agreement is binding upon and inures to the benefit of the successor, executors,
      administrators, and assigns of each party to this agreement, provided, however, that
      CONSULTANT shall not assign or transfer by operation of law or otherwise any or all rights,
      burdens, duties, or obligations without prior written consent of the DISTRICT. Any attempted
      assignment without such consent shall be invalid.

      CONSULTANT shall not subcontract, transfer, or assign this Agreement or any part thereof, or
      interest t herein, directly or indirectly, voluntarily or involuntarily, to any person without obtaining
      the prior written consent of the DISTRICT. Each subcontractor must be approved in w riting by the
      DISTRICT. The substitution of one subcontractor for another may be made only at the discretion
      of the DISTRICT and with prior, written approval from the DISTRICT.

      Notwithstanding the use of approved subcontractors, CONSULTANT will be the prime contractor
      and will be responsible for all work performed and will be responsible for all costs to
      subcontractors for services provided in performance of this Agreement.

      CONSULTANT remains legally responsible for the performance of all contract terms including work
      performed by third parties under subcontracts. Any subcontracting will be subject to all applicable
      provisions to this Agreement. CONSU LTANT shall be held responsible by the DISTRICT for the
      performance of any subcontractor whether approved by the DISTRICT or not.

20.   OPINIONS OF COST
      Any opinions of probable cost provided by CONSULTANT for design and construction are to be
      made on the basis of CONSULTANT's experience and qualifications, and represent CONSULTANT's
      best judgment as an experienced and qualified professional generally familiar with the industry.
      However, CONSULTANT cannot and does not guarantee that proposa ls, buds .or actual design and
      construction costs w ill not vary from opinions of probable design and construction costs prepared
      by CONSULTANT.

21.   OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
      CONSULTANT hereby assigns to the DISTRICT and its assignees all copyright and other use rights
      in any and all proposals, plans, specification, designs, drawings, sketches, renderings, models,
      reports, and related documents (including computerized or electronic copies) respecting in any
      way the subject matter of this Agreement, whether prepared by the DISTRICT, the CONSULTANT,
      the CONSULTANT's sub-contractors, or third parties at the request of the CONSULTANT
      (collectively, "Documents and Materials").

      CONSULTANT also hereby assigns to the DISTRICT and its assignees all copyright and other use rights
      in any Documents and Materials including electronic copies stored in CONSULTANT's information
      system(s), in any way the subject matter of this Agreement.

      CONSULTANT agrees to take such further steps as may be reasonably requested by DISTRICT to
      implement the aforesaid assignment. If for any reason said assignment is not effective,
      CONSULTANT hereby grants the DISTR ICT and any assignee of the DISTRICT an express, exclusive
      and irrevocable roya lty-free license to retain and use said Documents and Materials. The rights of
      the DISTRICT under this Section sha ll apply regardless of the degree of completion of the
      Documents and Materials and whether or not CONSULTANT's services as set forth in Exhibit A to
      this Agreement have been fully performed. The DISTRICT agrees to indemnify and hold

                                                                                               P a g e 7 I 14


                                                                                                                 P41
      CONSULTANT harmless from any claim arising out of use of partially completed documents or re-
      use of the documents for other than this Project.

      During the term of this Agreement CONSULTANT shall be permitted to retain copies, including
      computerized and reproducible copies, of said Documents and Materials.

22.   CONFIDENTIALITY
      CONSULTANT agrees that any information, whether proprietary or not, made known to or
      discovered by him during the performance of or in connection with this Agreement for the
      DISTRI CT will be kept confidential and not be disclosed to any other person or entity except as
      required by law. CONSULTANT agrees to immediately notify the DISTRICT if he is requested to
      disclose to others any information made known to or discovered by him during the performance
      of or in connection with t his Agreement. These conflict of interest and future service provisions
      and limitations shall remain fully effective for five (5) years after CONSULTANT's t ermination of
      services t o the DISTRICT hereunder.

23.   ACCESS AND RETENTION OF RECORDS
      CONSULTANT agrees to provide the DISTRICT and its designee's access to all of the CONSULTANT's
      records related this contract and that the CONSULTANT shall maintain its records related to t his
      contract for a period of not less than five (5) years after the final payment to the CONSULTANT is
      made by the DISTRICT.

24.   TERMINATION
      Either party may terminate this Agreement for default upon five (5) days written notice to the
      other if the other party has substantially failed to fulfill any of its obligations und er this Agreement
      in a timely manner as provided herein.

      In addition to the five-day notice of termination as described above, any of the following
      occurrences or acts will constitute a material breach by CONSULTANT under the terms and
      conditions of the Agreement:

              a)       non-performance or non-observance of any of its other covenants, agreements,
                       or obligations hereunder, express or implied, continuing for fifteen (15) days after
                       the DISTRICT has given CONSULTANT notice in writing. If the failure cannot be
                       remedied within fifteen (15) days, th e DISTRICT, at its discretion, may extend, in
                       writing, the tim e period, or terminate th e Agreement;
               b)      an assignment for the benefit of creditors or becoming bankrupt or insolvent,
                       t aking the benefit of any legislation for the protection of bankrupt or insolvent
                       parties;
               c)      the appoi ntment of a receiver for CONSU LTANT; or
               d)      for reasons including, but not limited to, unethical or criminal activities.

      In the event either subparagraphs a), b), c), or d) occur, as set forth in this Agreement, the
      DISTRICT will have the right t o terminate the Agreement immediately, w hich sha ll be done in
      writing and sent to CONSULTANT via certified, U.S. Mail and by e-mail.

      The DISTRICT has and reserves the right to terminate this Agreement at its convenience and
      without cause upon thirty (30) days w ritten notice t o CONSULTANT. In t he event that the DISTRICT
      should terminate t his Agreement for its convenience, CONSULTANT shall be entitled to payment

                                                                                                P ag e 8 I 14


                                                                                                                  P42
        for services provided hereunder, but only for such services performed prior to the effective date
        of said termination accrued as of the date of the t ermination, w hich payment shall be per the
        terms set forth in Exhibit B. In the event of Agreement termination, all documentation relati ng to
        this Agreement shall be returned to the DISTRICT.

25.     ASSURANCE OF PERFORMANCE
        If at any time DISTRICT believes CONSULTANT may not be adequately performing its obligations
        under this Agreement or that CONSULTANT may fail to complete the services as required by this
        Agreement, DISTRICT may, at its opt ion, request from CONSULTANT prompt written assurances
        of performance and a written plan acceptable to DISTRICT, t o corre ct the observed deficiencies in
        CONSULTANT's performance. CONSULTANT shall provide such written assurances and written
        plan within ten (10) calendar days of his receipt of DISTRICT request and shall thereafter diligently
        commence and fully perform such written plan. CONSULTANT acknowledges and agrees that any
        failure to provide such written assurances and written plan within the required time shall
        constitute grounds for termination pursuant to this Agreement.

  26.   DISPUTE RESOLUTION AND CONTINUANCE OF WORK
        In the event of a dispute between the Parties as to performance of services or the interpretation
        of this Agreement, or payment or nonpayment for services performed or not performed, the
        Parties shall attempt to resolve the dispute. Either party may demand in writing an informal meet
        and confer conference to attempt to settle any matter in dispute. If the Parties are unable to settle
        the dispute, the matter shall be submitted to med iation, pursuant to the t erms of California Public
        Contract Code 9204(d)(2)(B).

        Pending resolution of this dispute, CONSULTANT agrees t o continue providing services under this
        Agre~ment diligently to completion. If the dispute is not resolved, CONSULTANT agrees it shall
        neither rescind this Agreement nor stop performance of services subject to this Agreement. If the
        matter is not resolved after mediation, CONSULTANT's sole remedy shall be to subm it such
        controversy to binding arbitration. Such arbitrat ion shall be conducted in accordance with
        California Code of Civil Procedure 1280-1294.4 which provisions are expressly incorporated
        herein. The prevailing party shall be entitled, as pa rt of its costs, to a reasonable attorn ey's fee to
        be fixed by the court or the arbitrator.

27.     CHOICE OF LAW
        CONSULTANT agrees that if a dispute arises in th e performance of this agreement the laws of the
        State of California will govern . In the event any action is fil ed by either party to t his Agreement,
        venue for that action shall be in the Superior Court for the County of Sacra mento.

28.     ENTIRE AGREEMENT
        This Agreement, including all attachments, exhibits, and any other documents specifically
        incorporated into this Agreement, shall constitute the entire agreeme nt between DISTRICT and
        CONSULTANT relating to the subject matter of t his Agreement. As used herein, Agreement ref ers
        to and includes any documents incorporated herein by reference and any exhibits or attachments.

        This Agreement supersedes and merges all previous underst andings, and all other agreements,
        written o r oral, between the Parties and sets forth th e entire understanding of th e Parties
        regarding the subject matter t hereof. The Agreement may not be modified except by a written
        document signed by both Parties.


                                                                                                  P a g e 9 I 14


                                                                                                                    P43
 29.   MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT
       This Agreement may be supplemented, amended, or modified only by the mutual agreement of
       the Parties. No supplement, amendment, or modification of this Agreement shall be binding
       unless it is in writing and signed by authorized representatives of both Parties.

 30.   SEVERABILITY
       If any part of this Agreement or the application thereof is declared to be invalid for any reason,
       such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement which can be given effect
       without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this Agreement are
       deemed severable.

31.    NOTICES
       All notices, requests, demands, or other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing.
       Notices shall be given for all purposes as follows:

       Personal delivery: When personally delivered to the recipient, notices are effective on delivery.

       First Class Mail: When mailed first class to the last address of the recipient known to the party
       giving notice, notice is effective three (3) mail delivery days after deposit in a United States Postal
       Service office or mailbox.

       Certified Mail: When mailed certified mail, return receipt requested, notice is effective on receipt,
       if delivery is confirmed by a return receipt.

       Overnight Delivery: When delivered by overnight delivery (Federal Express/Airborne/United
       Parcel Service/OHL Worldwide Express) with charges prepaid or charged to the sender's account,
       notice is effective on delivery, if delivery is confirmed by the delivery service.

       Addresses for purpose of giving notice are as follows:

       To: DISTRICT:                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                         Attn: Erin Castleberry, Administrative Analyst
                                         10545 Armstrong Avenue, Suite 200
                                         Mather, CA 95655

       To: CONSULTANT:                   Abercrombie Planning+Design
                                         Attn: Tommy Abercrombie, Principal
                                         3508 Overton Park Drive West
                                         Fort Worth, TX 76109

       Any correctly addressed notice that is refused, unclaimed, or undeliverable because of an act or
       omission of the party to be notified shall be deemed effective as of the first date that said notice
       was refused, unclaimed, or deemed undeliverable by the postal authorities, messenger, or
       overnight delivery service.

       Any party may change its address by giving the other party notice of the change in any manner
       permitted by this Agreement.




                                                                                              P a g e 10 I 14


                                                                                                                 P44
32.   SIGNATORIES
      By signing this agreement, signatories warrant and represent that they have executed this
      Agreement in their authorized capacity.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year
      above written.

      DISTRICT                                     CONSULTANT


      By: _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __                      B y : - -- - - - - - - - -
            Adam A. House, Fire Chief                     Tommy Abercrombie, Principa l

      Date: _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __ __                   Date: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __




                                                                                  P a g e 11 I 14


                                                                                                    P45
                                               EXHIBIT A
                                            Scope of Services

CONSULTANT shall act as Owner Advisor to advise the DISTRICT and coordinate activities associated with
the successful completion of the Project. CONSULTANT's primary role as Owner Advisor is to ensure that
the Project is completed on time, within budget, and to the highest quality standards, meeting the
DISTRICT's objectives and expectations. CONSULTANT shall be engaged for the duration of the Project,
from the design-build procurement phase through Project closeout.

The scope of. services to be provided by the CONSULTANT shall include the following activities as
applicable to meet Project goals:

A.   DESIGN-BUILD PROCUREMENT PHASE
     1. Consult with the DISTRICT to define and clarify Project objectives, priorities, scope, requirements,
        budget, and timeline.
     2. Assist with evaluation of submissions to the Request for Qualifications (RFQ) issued by the
        DISTRICT for solicitation of design-build entities.
     3. Assist in the preparation of the DISTRICT's Request for Proposals (RFP) document in accordance
        with the DISTRICT's established procurement schedule.
     4. Prepare design criteria documents (Project program, performance requirements, and applicable
        minimum standards/specifications) for inclusion in the RFP that clearly define Project goals,
        challenges and constraints.
             a. Such documents should define requirements for scope, performance and quality for the
                 Project and should reflect recognized industry standards that are current, attainable, and
                 appropriate for the Project.
             b. Design criteria documents should minimize the use of overly prescriptive requirements in
                 order to provide the design-build team adequate flexibility to optimize the balance
                 between scope, quality, schedule and budget within current market conditions, so as to
                 empower the design-build team to meet or exceed the DISTRICT's needs through
                 innovation and creativity.
             c. Design criteria documents should also include a prioritized list of scope beyond the
                 minimum requirements.
     5. Participate in any scheduled pre-proposal conferences and job walks as requested by the DISTRICT
        during the RFP process.
     6. Assist with the selection of a design-build entity including reviewing and evaluating proposals
        submitted in response to the RFP issued by the DISTRICT for design-build entities and participating
        in interviews.
     7. Assist with development of final design-build contract including establishing critical path and
        milestones, validating proposed Project budget, incentive/award fee development, ensuring basis
        of design documents are consistent with the DISTRICT's objectives, priorities and requirements,
        and other negotiations as needed to support best value procurement of the design-build entity.
     8. Identify additional resources or team members needed to complete the Project outside of the
        design-build team (ie. labor compliance, third-party testing and inspection, etc.) and assist the
        DISTRICT is securing these resources.

B.   DESIGN PHASE
     1.   Represent the DISTRICT's interests during design development to ensure that design aligns with
          Project objectives, priorities, requirements, budget and timeline.


                                                                                            P a g e 12 I 14


                                                                                                               P46
     2. Review submittals prepared by the design-build team including drawings, specifications, shop
        drawings, samples, and other required submittals to ensure conformance with basis of design
        documents.
     3. Assist the DISTRICT in responding to Requests for Information (RFI) from the design-build team
        and issuing clarifications and/or interpretations of the basis of design documents.
     4. Ensure design documents are in compliance with applicable codes and regulations.
     5. Participate in constructability reviews and value engineering exercises to optimize cost without
        compromising quality.
     6. Identify potential risk factors which are conditions or events that could negatively impact Project
        scope, quality, schedule or cost and make recommendations to manage and/or mitigate risk.

C.   CONSTRUCTION PHASE
     1. Monitor construction progress, schedule adherence, and quality control to ensure compliance
        with design and construction standards.
     2. Assist with recommendation, review and approval of change orders or modifications.
     3. Assist with review and approval of monthly requests for payment and schedule updates.
     4. Coordinate the completion of all required testing and inspections as needed throughout the
        construction phase.
     5. Monitor Project costs, including tracking and reporting on budget variances.
     6. Participate in regular Project meetings and provide regular status reports to the DISTRICT.
     7. Conduct regular site visits during construction on no less than a monthly basis for general
        inspection and observation to determine in general if the work is proceeding in accordance with
        the basis of design documents.

D. PROJECT CLOSEOUT & ACCEPTANCE
   1. Oversee admin istration of punch-list generation and completion, start-up, commissioning,
      training, and closeout.
   2. Facilitate pre-occupancy and/or final inspections of the completed work.
   3. Verify that all Project components are completed to the DISTRICT's satisfaction and in accordance
      with the basis of design documents.
   4. Ensure that all relevant documentation including, but not limited to, maintenance and operating
      instructions and schedu les, warranties, and as-built drawings are provided to the DISTRICT.
   5. Assist with the transition to the operational phase, if applicable.
   6. Assist as needed with coordination of warranty inspection and any required warranty work during
      the warranty period.

E.   CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION
     1. Assist with contract administration for all contracts related to the completion of the Project to
        ensure performance in accordance with contract documents.
     2. Support any applicable incentive/award fee program.
     3. Facilitate resolution of contract disputes and advise on claims analysis, mitigation and resolution
        between the DISTRICT and all parties performing work on the Project, including design-build entity
        and any other entity the DISTRICT has contracted to complete the Project.

F.   GENERAL SERVICES
     1. Consult with and/or attend meeting as necessary throughout all phases of the Project with the
        DISTRICT and any other applicable parties relative to the completion of the Project.
     2. Provide such incidental services in connection with the Project which logically and justifiably must
        be performed in order to complete the Project.

                                                                                            P a g e 13 I 14


                                                                                                               P47
                                              EXHIBIT B
                                            Payment Terms

1.   PAYMENT
     The total fee for services shall be $150,000 US Dollars. Payment will be made on a percentage
     completed basis in accord ance with the milestone and delivery schedule outlined below.

     Invoices for payment will be provided to the DISTRICT on not less than a monthly basis, and shall
     specify the percentage of completion as to each milestone that is subject to the invoice. No advance
     payments shall be made.

2.   MILESTONE AND DELIVERY SCHEDULE
     The milestone and delivery schedule is outlined as follows and may be amended as needed by the
     mutual agreement of the Parties.

      Milestone/Deliverable                        Delivery Schedule
      Design-Build Procurement Phase                   April 15, 2024
                               RFQ Evaluation        January 1, 2024
                    Design Criteria Documents       January 15, 2024
                   Final Design-Build Contract          April 1, 2024
      Design and Construction Phase               December 31, 2025

3.   BILLABLE RATES FOR ADDITIONAL SERVICES
     Additional services not included in the Scope of Services that are provided at the request of the
     DISTRICT shall billed at the hourly rates specified below:

      Position Title                                      Hourly Rate
      Principals                                           $   225.00
      Architectural Associate                              $   185.00
      Research Associate                                   $   150.00
      Cost Estimator                                       $   150.00
      Quality Control/Va lue Engineering                   $   150.00
      IT/Modeling                                          $   125.00
      Administrative Support                               $   105.00
      CAD Technician                                       $    75.00




                                                                                          P a g e 14 I 14
                                                                                                            P48
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
  1            I   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700


~.d'
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief

                                 RESOLUTION NO. 2023-XXX

 A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT APPROVING
    A CONTRACT AWARD FOR OWNER ADVISOR SERVICES FOR THE ZINFANDEL
                       PHASE 3 BUILDOUT PROJECT
         WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political subdivision
  of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant to the State
  constitution and laws; and
         WHEREAS, the District adopted Resolution 2023-065 which determined that it was in
  the best interest of the District to use the design-build construction delivery method for the
  Zinfandel Phase 3 Buildout project ("Project"); and

         WHEREAS, the District has determined that retaining the services of a consultant to
  serve as Owner Advisor to facilitate the successful completion of the Project is recognized as a
  best practice for design-build projects and is in the best interest of the District; and

          WHEREAS, the District desires to award a contract to Abercrombie Planning+Design to
  serve as Owner Advisor on the project, in consideration of a Request for Exception to Formal
  Solicitation Process and in accordance with the District's Purchasing and Contracting Policy.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the Sacramento
   Metropolitan Fire District, does hereby approve a Request for Exception to Formal Solicitation
   Process for Owner Advisor services to award a contract to Abercrombie Planning+Design and
   authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to execute and administer a professional services
   agreement materially similar to the proposed agreement.

         PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 26th day of October, 2023. I, MARNI
   RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT HEREBY
   CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting of the
   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

   AYES:
   NOES:
   ABSENT:
   ABSTAIN:

                                         SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                         By: - - -- - - - -- - - - --
                                             President, Board of Directors
   ATTEST:


  Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
  Clerk of the Board
                                 Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                         P49
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief


     DATE:          October 26, 2023

     TO:            Board of Directors

     SUBJECT:       Surplus Vehicle Designation



                                                 TOPIC

     Request Board authorization to surplus the vehicles listed below. In addition, give Staff
     direction to remove the vehicles from the District's permanent vehicle inventory.


                                              DISCUSSION

     The attached resolution recommends the removal of the following vehicles from the fleet
     due to maintenance costs and mechanical condition.

     Dist. I.D. #             Vehicle Descri~tion                           Mileage     Condition

     2460                     1991 Ford Type V                              33981       Poor

     2470                     1992 Ford Type V                              82096       Poor

     24195                    2003 Ford Crown Vic                           105023      Fair

     24253                    2005 Alamar Rescue Boat                       NA          Poor

     24262                    2005 Ford Crown Vic                           140000      Fair

     24264                    2005 Ford Excursion                           114796      Poor

     24343                    2008 Ford Ambulance                           200360      Poor

     24417                    2013 Sprinter Ambulance                       207622      Wrecked

     24390                    201 0 Chevy Ambulance                         194028      Poor

     24401                    2013 Sprinter Ambulance                       240649      Poor

     24415                    2014 Sprinter Ambulance                       212450      Poor

                                                                                                                     l
     The District maintains a file of written requests for surplus equipment, and will dispose of
     this vehicle by donation or through a third party auction.




                                   Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                              P50
Page2


                                            FISCAL IMPACT

        None

                                         RECOMMENDATION

        Staff recommends that the Board approve the attached Resolution, designating the vehicles
        listed as surplus. Once approved, steps will be taken to sell or donate the vehicle as
        deemed appropriate by the Fire Chief.


        Submitted by:                                     Approved by:




        Shea Pursell
        Fleet Manager

                                                                                                           i


        ATTACHMENTS:

        Attachment 1: Resolution                                                                          I


                                                                                                          ,.
                                                                                                          ·I




                                   Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                    P51
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
  l            I       10545 Armstrong Ave. , Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700


~ .;~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief



                                      RESOLUTION NO. 2023-XXX

      A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
           ADOPTING THE SPECIFIC FLEET VEHICLES AS SURPLUS


         WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political
  subdivision of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant
  to the State constitution and laws; and

          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has adopted a Fleet Vehicle Replacement
   Plan; and

         WHEREAS, the District has purchased numerous vehicles from this fiscal year's
   budget; and                                      •

          WHEREAS, several vehicles in the District's fleet are aged, have safety concerns,
   anticipated maintenance costs and/or mechanical conditions; and

         WHEREAS, the District recognizes the cost effectiveness of removing excess
   apparatus and vehicles from the fleet inventory.

          NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the
   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District does hereby approve that the fol lowing vehicles be
   declared as surplus:

                        ACQUISITION                                              PLANNED    FAIRMKT
       ASSET II      DATE         COST      DESCRIPTION          SERIAL NO       DISPOSAL    VALUE    VEH NO.
                                            1991 Ford                            AUCTION/
       3172-FA     01/01/91   $    37,227                   2FDLF4 7MOMCA66702              $3,500       2460
                                            TypeV                                DONATION

                                            1992 Ford                            AUCTION/
      3182_FA      01/01/92   $    42,523                   2FDLF47MXNCA79538               $3,500       2470
                                            TypeV                                DONATION

                                            2003 Ford                            AUCTION/
      3505_FA      01/31/03   $    22,585                   2FAHP71W43X180282               $1,500      24195
                                            Crown Vic                            DONATION

                                            2005 Alamar                          AUCTION/
      3675.l_FA    10/08/04   $    38,885                   CF4717XC                        $1,000      24253
                                            Rescue Boat                          DONATION

                                            2005 Ford                            AUCTION/
      3737_FA      04/21/05   $    22,191                   2FAFP71W95X152973               $500        24262
                                            Crown Vic                            DONATION

                                            2005 Ford                            AUCTION/
      3738_FA      04/21/05   $    34,757                   1FMNU41S65EC66288               $6,500      24264
                                            Excursion                            DONATION
                                            2008 Ford                            AUCTION/
      4174_FA      11/04/08   $   139,347                   1FDXE45P48DB01104               $2,000      24343
                                            Ambulance                            DONATION

                                            2013 Sprinter                        AUCTION/
      4565_FA      11/03/14   $   102,533                   WD3PE7CC8E5863082               $0          24417
                                            Ambulance                            DONATION




                                      Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties                                    P52
RESOLUTION NO. 2023-XXX
Page 2

                  ACQUISITION                                             PLANNED    FAIR MKT

  ASSET/I     DATE          COST      DESCRIPTION          SERIAL NO      DISPOSAL    VALUE     VEH NO.

                                      2010 Chevy                          AUCTION/
  4297_FA    07/27/11   $   136,193                   1GB9G5B65A1133774              $2,600       24390
                                      Ambulance                           DONATION

                                      2013 Sprinter                       AUCTION/
  4560_FA    07/29/13   $   101,212                   WD3PE7CC6D5790308              $9,000       24401
                                      Ambulance                           DONATION

                                      2014 Sprinter                       AUCTION/
  4563_ FA   11/03/14   $   102,619                   WD3PE7CC4E5863080              $9,200       24415
                                      A mbulance                          DONATION




        PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 26th day of OCTOBER, 2023.
I, MARNI RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE
DISTRICT HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a
regular meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll
call vote:

AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:


                                           SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                           By: - -- -- - - - - -- -- - -
                                               President, Board of Directors

ATTEST:


Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board




                                                                                                          P53
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief


     DATE:           October 26, 2023

     TO: ·           Board of Directors

     SUBJECT:        Purchase Approval - Six (6) Ambulance Remounts


                                                   TOPIC

     Staff seeks Board approval to have six (6) Sprinter/Leader ambulance units currently in-service,
     remounted onto new 2024 Sprinter chassis by Leader Industries.

                                                SUMMARY

     Due to the increased mileage Emergency Medical Services (EMS) transports are placing on our
     ambulance fleet, ambulances are reaching their replacement mileage in three years, rather than
     the expected six years. In an effort to reduce the cost of maintaining a working ambulance fleet,
     Staff recommends replacing the worn-out chassis of six existing vehicles and remounting the
     original box portion onto a new vehicle. This process will result in a vehicle that has been
     updated and nearly new, with a cost savings of $106,000.00 per unit.

                                               DISCUSSION

     In order to maintain all original functionality and reliability, this purchase will be sole source,
     performed by the original manufacturer of the ambulance, Leader Industries. Additionally, the
     Purchasing Division has reviewed the Exception to Formal Solicitation documents and
     determined they are consistent with Metro Fire purchasing policies and procedures.

                                             FISCAL IMPACT

     The total cost for the remounting of the six (6) ambulances is $1,009,388.76. The funds for this .
     purchase are included in the FY 2023/24 Final Budget.

                                           RECOMMENDATION

     Staff respectfully recommends the Board approve the remounting of these six (6) Ambulances
     by Leader Industries.

     Submitted by:                                         Approved by:


         &v\8)~
     Shea Pursell
     Fleet Manager                                                          pport Services



                                   Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                                P54
                          Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                          HEADQUARTERS: 10545 Armstrong Ave. , Mather, CA, 95655 , Phone (916) 859-4300, Fax (916) 859-3702
                          Website: www.metroflre.ca.gov
                          PURCHASING: 3012 Gold Canal Dr. , Rancho Cordova, CA, 95670 , Phone (916)859-4360 , Fax (916) 859-3729

        ADAM A. HOUSE
           Fire Chit/

                        REQUEST FOR E>CCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS
                                                 and
                                       DISCLOSURE STATEMENT

Purchase Description: Remounting of six (6) ambulance box modules onto new 2024 chassis


Proposed Vendor:           Leader Industries


Estimated Total Cost:$ 1,009,388.76

This form must accompany the vendor quote document whenever an exception to the formal solicitation
process is requested. State and local laws subject the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District to competitive
bidding rules. Requests for goods and/or services from a specific vendor or that are limited to a specific
brand, where substitutes to the recommended vendor or brand are not in the best interest of the
District, must be accompanied by a written justification explaining the circumstances that make alternatives
unacceptable. The employee signing the justification must disclose in writing whether or not they have a
potential or actual conflict of interest. Metro Fire employees who have a business relationship with or
financial or personal interest in the recommended vendor must disclose the conflict of interest. Any
employee with an actual or potential conflict of interest may not participate in the purchase decision.

The Purchasing Agent and branch Deputy Chief will determine whether the justification is appropriate.
Requests for exceptions to the formal solicitation process must be supported by factual statements that will
pass an audit and must be submitted to the Board of Directors for final review and approval.

1. Please check all applicable categories below and provide additional information where indicated.

 D a. The requested product is an integral repair part or accessory compatible with existing equipment.
               Existing Equipment:

               Manufacturer/Model Number:

               Age:

               Current Estimated Value:


 □ b. The requested product has unique design/performance specifications or quality requirements that
      are not available in comparable products.

          I have standardized the requested product, and the use of another brand/model would require
          considerable time and funding to evaluate.

                                                                                                                                   P55
                                  REQUEST f-Oll ElCCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT


  □ d. The requested product is one in which I {and/or my staff) have specialized training and/or extensive
       expertise. Retraining would incur substantial cost in time and/or funding.

 D e. The requested product is used or demonstration equipment available at a lower-than-new cost.
 D f. Repair/Maintenance service is available only from the manufacturer or designated service
                      representative.

 D g. Upgrade to or enhancement of existing software is available only from the manufacturer.
 IVI h. Service proposed by vendor is unique, therefore, competitive bids are not available or applicable.
 D i. Other factors
2. Provide a detailed explanation and pertinent documentation for each category checked in Section 1 above.
       Attach additional sheets if necessary:
       In order to maintain the high level of reliability and all original functionality, the remounting of the
       box portion of the existing ambulances needs to be performed by the original manufacturer.




3. Was an evaluation of other equipment, products, or services performed?                Oves             ~ No
      If yes, please provide all supporting documentation.

4. List below the name of each individual who was involved in the evaluation, if conducted, and/or in making
   the recommendation to procure this product or service. Attach additional information if necessary. Each
   individual must submit a completed and signed Disclosure Statement (attached).
                 1. Shea Pursell                           2.

                 3.                                        4.
I certify that the above information is accurate to the best of my knowledge, and a signed copy of this
document will be kept on file and available for audit in my department.

                             ~ti\ f?e!>'cte                          Fleet Manager
                                        Signature                       Budget Officer Title

                           Shea Pursell                                 10-13-23
                                                                               Date

                                                          Approval

                                                                      Tyler Wagaman            10-17-23
                                                                      Printed Name               Date p a g e 2 I 3


                                                                                                                      P56
n ...... n/, 1
                          REQUEST FOR E}{CEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT



                                      DISCLOSURE STATEMENT TO ACCOMPANY
                              REQUEST FOR E}CCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS


When submitting a request for an exception to the formal solicitation process, each individual involved in
evaluating and/or in making a recommendation to purchase the proposed good/service must complete, sign,
and submit this Disclosure Statement. Filing an annual statement of economic interest does not exempt
an employee from this requirement. Attach additional information if necessary.

Purchase Description: Remounting of six (6) ambulance box modules onto new 2024 chassis


Proposed Vendor:       Leader Industries

   1.   Please list any income or gifts you received from this vendor during the past 12 months:
        None.

   2. Please list any financial interests (stocks, shares, investments, etc.) you have in this vendor:
        None.

   3. Do you have any other type of business or personal relationship with this vendor?
        No.

   4. To the best of your knowledge, does any member of your departmental staff have a business or
        personal relationship with this vendor?
        No.

   5. Do you or any of your near relatives have any financial or personal interest in this vendor? If yes,
      please describe.
        No.

   6. Please provide any additional information you believe should be disclosed at this time:
        N/A
                                                                                                                   I


I certify that the above information is accurate to the best of my knowledge, and a signed copy of this
                                                                                                                   L
document will be kept on file and available for audit in my department.                                            I
           Sfit-\ Vqe>c<,L-                                         Fleet Manager
                      Signature                                                     Title

        Shea Pursell                                                          10-13-23

                   Printed Name                                                      Date

                                                                                                  Page 313


                                                                                                             P57
R,w 5/18/2022                                   Customer Sales Order Pricing Summary

                                                                                                                  L 3314
   11LEHDER 912s12022
                 R=
                  ----vliRDUP
                                                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                                                                                                  VIN:
  Kevin Oberthier               559-761- 9382     4425 Dudley BLVD.
                                                                                                                  Parenl Job     3314
  10941 Weaver Ave                                McClellan., CA 95692
                                                                                                                  Quoted by:    Jorge Morales
  So. El Monte, CA 91733                           Shea Pursell                   (916) 859-4140




             PLEASE REVIEW THE ATTACHED SALES ORD.ER FOR ACCURACY. BY SIGNING THIS FORM IT IS AGREED THE PRICING AND THE
                SALES ORDER ARE ACCURATE AND CONFIRMED. CHANGE ORDER FEES MAY APPLY IF ANY CHANGES ARE REQUESTED.


VEHICLE CONTRACT TOTALS                                                                          Each                     Total Vehicles:=         6

 Unit Price Per Quote                                                                              $154,635.00                     $927,810.00

 GPC /CPA                                                                                                 $0.00                             $0.00


SUBTOTAL                                                                                           $154,635.00                     $927,810.00


VEHICLE CONTRACT TOTALS AND ADDITIONAL FEES

Sales tax calculated at: 7.75 %                                                                     $11,984.21                     $71,905.26

 Estimated DMV Fees                                                                                       $0.00                            $0.00

Tire Fees ($1.75) per tire: 7                                                                            $12.25                           $73.50

 Delivery Fees                                                                                       $1,600.00                       $9,600.00

FINAL TOTAL INCLUDING ALL FEES                                                                     $168,231 .46                  $1,009,388.76



NOTED ITEMS ALREADY INCLUDED IN CONTRACT PRICE

This is a Intent to purchase based on the departments approval and Budget. Subject to cancel with no penalty.

Customer Representative             Date:                                   Payment: (Please check one)                            Leasing □

                                                                                                                         Company Check       D
                                                                                                                               Wire Transfer D
Print Name                                           Signature


       Purchaser agrees to defend, indemnify and hold Halcore Group Inc., dba Leader Industries, harmless from any claims, costs
        (including actual attorney's fees), damages and liabilities caused in whole or inpart by any alteration or modification of,' or
                                             changes or additions to these purchased products.
                                TERMS: All Vehicle Sales are C.O.D. unless approved in advance by Leader.
                                        Titles to be processed Upon Receipt of Payment in Full.
                                                      Quotation is valid for 60 days




3314                                                                  9/28/2022                                                         Page 1 of 1
                                                                                                                                                       P58
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702



ADAM HOUSE
  Fire Chief


    DATE:        October 26, 2023

    TO:          Board of Directors

    SUBJECT:      Fiscal Year 2024/25 Pension Plan Actuarial Valuations by the California
                  Public Employees' Retirement System


                                               TOPIC

    The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (District) provides a critical benefit to current
    employees and retirees in the form of a public pension plan, administered by the California
    Public Employees' Retirement System. CalPERS closely tracks and reports the fiscal
    performance of that plan and provides annual actuarial valuations to member
    organizations detailing the condition of their pension plan.


                                            DISCUSSION

    CalPERS provides an annual actuarial valuation to all member agencies that includes
    data on the number of current and anticipated retirees, amortization schedules, assets,
    liabilities, risks, and information on the effect of additional contributions beyond what is
    required. Data from the actuarial valuation informs the District on the condition and
    sufficiency of its investment and pension plan, and provides critical budget information for
    the upcoming fiscal year. In the most recent actuarial valuations for the District, an
    expected increase of $6.8 million over the current yea r contribution amount was identified
    and will be incorporated into the FY 2024/25 budget. The presentation will explain these
    developments and provide background on the District's pension plan.


                                          FISCAL IMPACT

    There is no fiscal impact associated with accepting the actuarial valuation report.


                                       RECOMMENDATION

    Staff recommends that the Board accept the assessed actuarial report.




                                 Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                           P59
Submitted By:



Dav~ O'Toole                                    Adam House
Chief Financial Officer                         Fire Chief




                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                   P60
         CalPERS FY 2024/25 Annual ·pension Valuation:
                  Safety, PEPRA, & Classic Plans
                            October 26, 2023


                            Presented by:
                            Dave O'Toole
                        Chief Financial Officer




-0
0)
......
~~~~
~
                   ..
     ~'-\\10 METJ?oA
     ~   -     •   •
                       ~/,,,
                             ~

    ,sr. fl> --~
         l"IRf:
                   "
                        00
                                 District Employees & Retirees by Plan Type - June 30, 2023




                                  Number                  Number
                                     of                      of         Number of
                                                                                       Support    Support
                                          Number of
                                  Actives Actives         Retirees       Retirees       Ratio      Ratio
                                   2023       2022         2023           2022          2023       2022
      Misc. PEPRA                      44            42             0             0      NA         NA
      Misc. Classic                    42            43           151            145       0.28          0.30
      Safety                          606         568             847            824       0.72          0.69




iJ
en
N)
     ~\,\\'tO METRo.,o.


~~1 !)>= • ~: ~
              ..
               ~
                                   Timing of CalPERS Market Performance
         FIR~




        Actuarial Valuation                         AV Report: Market       AV Report:           AV Report:
                   (AV) Report    Month AV Report   Performance Base      Effective Year -     Effective Year -
           Compressed Title            Issued              Date           LOCAL Agency         STA TE Agency
        Actuarial Valuation
        as of June 30J 2020      September 2021     June 30, 2021       July 1, 2023         July 1, 2022
        Actuarial Valuation
        as of June 30J 2021      September 2023     June 30, 2022       July 1, 2024         July 1, 2023
        Actuarial Valuation
        as of June 30J 2022      September 2024     June 30, 2023       July 1, 2025         July 1, 2024

                      • For local agency CalPERS members, there is a two-year lag
                        between investment returns and rate changes. Market changes
                        recorded at the end of FY 2021/22 (June 30, 2022) don't affect
                        contributions until FY 2024/25 (July 1, 2024), and aren't shared
                        by CalPERS until September 2023.

 '"'C
 a,
 w
      ~~                                                                                                                                              A
~~1 [!J= ~:~
         ..
          ~
                                       Plan Costs: Miscellaneous PEPR
      X:-IR£


               .-

                                              Misc. PEPRA Plan: Employer Cost
                    $300,000

                    $250,000

                    $200,000

                    $150,000



                    s;:::: ~,~ -LH
                         $0                --               -               --
                                   ~               ~                ~             ~              '.><                          (o              :'\
                                 Of~          ~r-...,          ~r-...,          ~');           ~"v              {'        f-'i'V          <or-,.,              :'\1>           ~,f>
                               ~">-        ~~               ~').,           ~r-...,       ~');             ~         ,-s>');          ,-s>'V           r-...,~r-...,      ,-s>'V
                          ~
                           -.\~        -.\~
                                       ~
                                                        -.\~
                                                        ~                «-.\~         «-.\~         ~-.\,-s>    ~-.\              ~-.\             ~-.\               ~-.\

                           ■ Employer-Only Normal Cost*                                        ■ Employer Unfunded Accrued Liability**




'"C
C')
~
~~?l\: O= ME,..,~,,~
          --~
                                        Plan Costs: Miscellaneous Classic
       PIRf:




                                            Misc. Classic Plan: Employer Cost
                       $2,500,000

                       $2,000,000

                       $1,500,000

                       $1,000,000

                        $500,000

                              $0
                                        ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       h        ~       ~       ~       ~
                                    ~         ~      ?        ~       ?       ~        ?        ~       ~        ~
                                    ~       ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~
                               ~
                                ~        ~
                                          ~       ~
                                                   ~     ~
                                                          ~       ~
                                                                   ~      ~
                                                                          ~
                                                                                  ~
                                                                                  ~        ~
                                                                                            ~      ~
                                                                                                    ~       ~
                                                                                                             ~




                              ■ Employer-Only Normal Cost*           ■ Employer Unfunded Accrued Liability*'~




 ""C
 a,
 0,
                                                                          6'c-~
                                                                                 ~Q             *·X·
                                                                                     p-i
                                                                                          ..y   ,q
                                                                          o>~,                  :.0
                                                                                <c               ro
                                                                                                :.:J
                                                                                    Oc-
                                                                                                -0
                                                                                        -i..y     Q)
                                                                                                  :::s
                                                                          <c~                     I..
                                                                                                  u
                                                                                 ?ap             ~
                                                                                                         l
,._,                                                                      ,9            -i..y   -0
(/)                                                                                               Q)
0                                                                          ?,..£G .             -o·
u                                                                                   oc          ~
                                                                                                  C

I,...                                                                                             C
                                                                                        -1       ::>
OJ                                                                        S'~             ..y
>
0
                                                                                ~
                                                                                                  I..
                                                                                                  Q)
                                                                                 ?op            .Q
                                                                                                  >
0..                                                                       I>            -i..y     0.

E                                                                          ?~                     E
                                                                                                 LU
LU

                                                                          ~
                                                                            2o
                                                                                     p-i
                                                                                          ..y
                                                                                                  •
C
                                                                           2c
-
ro
0...
                                                                                 i'ap            -11·
                                                                                                  t;
                                                                                                   0
                                                                          2             -i..y    u
,._,>     I                                                                ~'I'.                   ro
~         I                                                                      i'ap             E
ro                                                                        l'_           -i..y    z
                                                                                                  0
V)
                                                                           ~o                     >
                                                                                                   C
                                                                                 Po              0I
                                                                                  p-i             I..
                                                                          0~              ..y     Q)
                                                                                                   >
                                                                                ~                .Q
                                                                                 :?'o              0.
                                                                                     p-i           E
                                                                 0                        ..y
        8     8  80 8       8  8                                                                 LU

        0 ...
        8
              0
              g"  g"
                      0 ...
                     80 0 8
                            0
                            g"
                               0 ...
                                                                 -<.I).

                                                                                                  •
        0
        o"
              0
                 0
                  0  ...       ..
                               0
                                    0
                                        ...
                                              0
                                                  ..   0
                                                           ...
        I..O      Lf)      @         (Y)      N        .-i
        -<.I).   -<.I).    -<.I).   -<./).    -<.I).   -<.I).




                                                                                                             P66
  ~<c,\\'tO MET-9o,o.


~~1   fj=- _~    ~~~      Prior Years' Funded Ratios For District Retirement Plans
      F'IRf:




                 Plan          2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22       2022/23
  Misc. PEPRA                      89.7    95.4    92.8    92.1    90.9 105.1          87.9
  Mi sc. Classic                   75.2    76.4    74.6    74.2    73.0 83.1           71.6
  Safety                           64.7    67.3    65.3    64.5    63.4 72.2           62.2


                        Funded ratio for the entire Cal PERS Fund for FY 2022/23: 72.0%




""C
en
-.I
   ~'-\\'tO ME7Ro,o.


~~~a=-~· ~:~                           Amortization Schedule and Alternatives
       FIRE:       -




                                         Amortization       Total Amount
                            Plan           Schedule             Paid          Interest Paid    Savings
                       Misc. PEPRA     Current (20-year)         $949,787         $455,085        0
                                       15-Year                    778,441           283,739       171,346
                                       10-Year*
                       Misc. Classic   Current (20-year)    $37,679,770       $15,465,741         0
                                       15-Year                 34,955,000        12;740,971      2,724,770
                                       10-Year                 30,322,021         8,107,992      7,357,749
                       Safety          Current (21-yea r)     960,817,495      418,901,449        0
                                       15-Year                852, 734, 712    310,818,666     108,082,783
                                       10-Year               $739,712,263 $197,796,217        $221,105,232
                  l_:_Not pr~viE_ed by Cal PERS




""CJ
a,
co
      ~'-\\10 MErq0A
.$'-"",#~ ~~~                                                             •
... m.   !)> __;.   2000
                           ~                   Cal PERS History of Investment Returns, 2002 - 2021
         F'IR:S


                       History of Investment Returns (2003 - 2022)
                                  25%
                                                                                                                                                                                                       21.3%
                                  20%     I                        - --   ->:8;8%                             -- - -- - ,a_3_%-
                                                       16.6%
                                                       ..---
                                  15%
                                                                                                      11.1%
                                                                                                                     1_2.5%              ,..                          11.2%
                                                                                    .. '"·                                           t                                r-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,, ..
                                  10%                                                                                           i,
                                                                                                                                                   ' ....                 - ~..~~ 6.70/4                       ' '
                           C:                                                                                                                                                       -   - 1-   -4:,%
                            :; 5% I 3.7%                                                                              .,,   ,
                           .....
                            CV
                                                                                              '
                                                                                                  '                                                         Q.6()/o
                           :: 0%
                            ca
                           :::i
                                                                                    .;2.9%
                           §-5%
                           <(

                                  -10 %   1--· -   ·-- - - - - -
                                                                                                               x.x%                  Actual Annual Retum*
                                                                                                                            (Before Netting Administrative Expenses) --- ----
                                                                                                                                                                                           I                    •
                                                                                                                                                                                                             6•1%
                                                                                                                                                                                                         --- -    -
                                                                                                              0 - - -o                   RoTiing s.;Year Return
                                  -15%
                                                                                                                                     Discount Rate/Expected Return
                                                                                                                                 (Net of Administrative Expenses)
                                  -20%                                                                           ■                             Discount Rate Change
                                                                                             -23.6%

                    Di~~:ate 7.75%                                                                    7.50%                                          7.375% 7.2.5% 7.000.k                             6.80%
                                              2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 .2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
                                                                                           Rscal Year Ending


                                                                                             Source: Cal PERS Actuarial Valuation for SMFD, June 30, 2023



 -c
 a,
 co
                                                        R. k
~~# ~=.., ~~~~
      ,OM~                                      •
 UT.   (t
            ~
                 2000          Future Considerations:    1s s
       F'IR:E:



        • Expected FY 2024/25 increase in CalPERS costs:        $6.8 million.

        • June 30, 2023. The reported rate of investment return was 5.8%,
          again below the 6.8% target.

            • Funded ratios for Safety and Miscellaneous are below the
              2022/23 CalPERS average of 72.0%.

            • CalPERS projections incorporate wage growth of 2.8%. To the
              extent salary growth is higher, the government entity must
              contribute more.



-u
-.J
C)
         ~~\\'tO METRo.P.                                        •


~~~         ° '; . •
                 ..
                  ~
                       ~ ::
                          ~          Future Considerations: Solutions
            FIR£:



                              Ca/PERS member agencies are encouraged to
                              consider extra payments to lower the UAL through
                              an additional discretionary payment or adopting a
                              more aggressive amortization schedule.
                              -CalPERS Actuarial Valuations {September 2023)

                              Other Solutions:
                              • California Employers' Pension Prefunding Trust
                                (a CERBT for pension debt)
                              • Independent pension liability review



-a
-.J
......
         >
         0
         b.O
           •
         ca
         u   •
         QJ

f'\, ■
V,
         ·-0 enen
         I..
         '+-

z        I..
         ~
                 r,....
                 enI
-t-
0
V,
         QJ
         E
         @) enI
                 U)
                 N
w        QJ
:::>     >
                 U)

a        ca
         C
                 """4
                 en
             •
         -
         QJ
         0
         f1
         ~


         0




                          P72
        Standards of Cover


                    Presented by:
         Jeff Frye, Chief Development Officer
           Jake Whealen, GIS Data Analyst


                  October 26, 2023

7J
-..J
c..:,
           ► Board Strategic Plan (2020) identified Service Delivery as a
             major area of focus, with _initiatives focusing on:

              ►   Best Practices

              ► Administrative Coordination

              ► Sustainability

              ► Accreditation

           ► The Standards of Cover (SOC) helps to address all of these
             initiatives and is a fundamental first step in the continuous
             improvement of Metro Fire.




7J
........
.,1::,,
~                .
   ~\.~10 METNo,o.
 ~"i-,~
       -
  EST. !}
           '

            ..
             ~
              llo.. o.,~

                 ,coo
                       ~
                           Service Delivery Checklist
        PIR:E:




                                Service Delivery Planning Process

                                                       Process Checklist

                           Objectives
                           ✓   1. Complete Community Risk Assessment (CRA)
                                ✓   a. Create Documentation
                                □   b. Establish Prooess Timeline
                                ✓   c. Create Transparency
                           ✓   2. Perform Dispatch Operational Analysis
                                ✓   a . Better Coordination
                                ✓   b. Data Integration
                           ✓   3. Build Data Infrastructure
                           ✓   4 . Standards of Response Coverage
                                ✓   a . Create Documentation
                                ✓   b. Incorporate Best Practices
                                ✓   c. Establish Prooess Timeline
                                ✓   d. Create Transparency

                           Strategic Documents
                           ✓   1. Community Risk Assessment
                           ✓   2. Community Risk Reduction Plan
                           □   3. Updated Standards of Response Coverage Policies, Goals and Objectives
                           ✓   4. Standards of Response Coverage

                           Output
                           □   1. Service Delivery Plan to Members and Capital Asset Prooesses
                           □   2. Station Master Plan to Capital Asset Process
                           □   3. New Servioe (Standard Change) to Members and capital Asset Processes
 ~\\\,o MErno,o.


#.~1f'":~':" The SOC and the Strategic Planning Process
    F'IR:E:




                                                                       ]19             Financial
         Service Delivery   ]19           Members
                                                                                   Management
                                                                                                           I

                                         Staffinc Plan                           £JCPel'IH Modelln,
                                                                                                                                       Community Rbk
                                                                                 • ull),,)t                                            Reduction Pbft
                                                                                 • ::t-Mc:e t. Suppl~...
                                  r .3·: :·.~•· •   •••.. t IJ                   • Clpit.\J PtOjeru.                      Ananclnl
                            ]19   I
                                  I..
                                        Qn~1{'11l 'A ~~~' • 'j
                                           :··      • ' ' •.   J;j;!
                                                                       ]19                                     ]19                     Comnwnli
                                                                                                                       Management
                                                                                                                                               -ian
           Standard• of
            Ruponse
         C:OV.rap & Other
                                      ...............
                                             Clllltal
                                                                                                                       Annual 8ud1et
                                                                                                                                          St
                                                                                                                     -~                Efl:lallel1\Ctlt Pl.an
           Service Plana
                                                                                         Revenue               ~     • flf\ll
                                                                                                                     • W.ld-Ye~r
                                                                                        Modelin:
                                                                                                                                           !cenOfflk
                                                                                 • Ra Ccnttr,.ency                                          .-.fopm2nt
                                                                                                                                            Stta·

                                                                                        Ananclal               ]19
                                                                                    Manaiement
                                                                             .                             I
                                                                                  Reserve Modehnc

                                                                                 • G..~•· ~~t,,
                                                                                   Ret'fVe
      ► Section 1: Community Baseline

         ►   Organizational Overview, Community Overview, Service Overview

      ► Section 2: Risk Assessment

         ►   General Risk Assessment, Risk Assessment by Battalion & Station

      ► Section 3: Risk Categories & Critical Task Capabilities

         ► Application discussion: Using alternative deployment methods to
             reduce call volume and TOT in dense urban areas

      ► Section 4: Standards, Goals & Objectives

         ►   Response Standards, Response Goals, Service Level Objectives,
             Findings


""C
-J
-J
      ► Section 5: Service Delivery Analysis

         ► Deployment Study &      Gap Analysis, Service Planning, Growth
             Analysis, Findings

      ► Section 6: Performance Evaluation

         ►   Key Performance Measures, Performance Evaluation, Drawdown &
             Resource Exhaustion, Findings

      ► Section 7: Overall Evaluation & Recommendations

         ►   Summary of Findings, Genera l Recommendations, Maintenance of
             Effort, Policy Recommendations




-u
-.J
co
      ~. .
        ~~\\'tO METqo,o.
       ~~~P . . .lll,,.~<'9-
      ... m . ll.-     '


                     ....
                            icoc
                                   ,...
                                   ~

                                                      Capabilities & Future Studies
               F'IR:E:




                      ► SOC gives us the data and framework we need· to make
                                   informed decisions which improve service delivery

                      ► Numerous capabilities to apply SOC findings

                                          ► Service planning framework can tell us what to do and
                                              when to do it (see SOC pg. 262)
                                          ►   SOC data has already been used to conduct service
                                              delivery studies (BLS Medic 724 pilot study)




-0
-.I
co
       ► Standards of Cover Policy

          ► Will return next month with a Standards of Cover Policy
              action item
       ► Maintenance of Effort

          ► SOC will    be updated annually to update performance
              data, track growth trends, and evaluate progress
          ►   Will use working groups to collaborate on service
              delivery studies, define key performance metrics, and
              better integrate data {Ops Data Analyst)
       ► Next up: Service Delivery Plan

          ►   Key projects from the SOC will help develop a prioritized
              service delivery plan {SDP)
'"CJ
co
0
► The SOC was a vital step toward optimizing service delivery
  and strategic planning

► SOC will help us to:

   ►   Identify gaps and fill them with the right resources
   ► Communicate important information effectively

► Now that we have an inventory of our own performance
                                                        11
  and needs, we can identify "what better looks like
     •   f'-•
 :J       V')
 0        C
 >        0
~        ·-
         .....,
          V')
 C
          QJ
  ro
...c      :J
r-       0




                  P82
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   1          '
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~UJ~
ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief


       DATE:          October 26, 2023
       TO:            Board of Directors
       SUBJECT:       Acquisition of Real Property - Grantline 220 Future Fire Station Site

                                                    TOPIC
       Approval requested for acquisition of real property located in the Grantline 220 project area on
       Grey Owl Way in Rancho Cordova, California.
                                                BACKGROUND
       On June 9, 2022, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's (District) Board of Directors
       adopted Resolution 2022-050 which approved the District's first Capital Improvement Plan,
       including the authorization of the Grantline 220 Land Acquisition (Project 23-01) for a future fire
       station site. Staff began working with the landowner to secure a site, but the acquisition was not
       completed in FY2022/23. Project 23-01 was re-authorized by the Board in the FY2023/24
       Capital Improvement Plan, which was adopted on June 8, 2023 by Resolution 2023-033.

                                                DISCUSSION
       Over the past two years, staff has been working with the landowner, AKT Investments, Inc., to
       identify an appropriate site that meets District requirements. Based on new service projections
       identified in the Standards of Cover, the planned station will serve a first-due area of
       approximately three (3) square miles, with an estimated population of 25,000 and a call volume
       of 3,300 at full buildout. The future station is also anticipated to serve as home of a new
       battalion, with a planned 5:13 bay/bed configuration.

       Staff has negotiated an agreement with the landowner for the purchase of the approximately 3-
       acre site. The agreement includes a 60-day Purchase Price Determination Period during which
       the District will obtain an appraisal of fair market value. The agreement also includes a
       concurrent 60-day Feasibility Period, during which the District will complete its feasibility studies
       to determine if the site is suitable for future construction.

                                                 FISCAL IMPACT
       The District has budgeted $2.4 million for the purchase of the site. Final purchase price will be
       based on fair market value as determined by an appraisal. If the fair market value exceeds the
       budget, staff will bring a request for additional funding to the Board for consideration.

                                               RECOMMENDATION
       Staff recommends that the Board authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to affect the
       acquisition of real property for a future fire station site in the Grantline 220 project area.
                                                             Approved by:
                                                              (·
       Erin Castleberry
       Administrative Analyst
       Attachment 1: Resolution - Acquisition of Real Property


                                      Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                                P83
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief

                               RESOLUTION NO. 2023-XXX

     A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
           AUTHORIZING THE ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY

         WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political
  subdivision of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant to
  the State constitution and laws; and

          WHEREAS, AKT Investments, Inc. is the owner ("Owner") of certain real property
  totaling approximately three (3) acres located in the Grantline 220 project area on Grey Owl
  Way in Rancho Cordova, California ("Property"); and

          WHEREAS, the District desires to acquire the Property for its future use as a fire
  station location; and

        WHEREAS, the District has negotiated a purchase and sale agreement with the
  Owner for the Property.

         NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the Sacramento
  Metropolitan Fire District does hereby authorize the Fire Chief or his designee .as its
  Authorized Agent(s) to affect the acquisition of the Property.

          PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 26th day of OCTOBER, 2023. I, MARNI
  RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
  HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting
  of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

  AYES:
  NOES:
  ABSENT:
  ABSTAIN:

                                        SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                        By: - - - -- - - - -- -- - -
                                            President, Board of Directors
  ATTEST:


  Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
  Clerk of the Board


                               Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                         P84
