                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I

                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~hi~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief
                                   ADOPTED
                   ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                                  BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                        SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                 Thursday, October 26, 2023
                               Held at the following locations:
                           10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                      Mather, California
                                               &
                                     Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER
  The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm by President Clark. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold , Jones, Saylors, Sheetz, Webber and Wood. Board members absent:
  Rice. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  Public comments were not received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by
  members present to adopt the consent calendar as amended:

  1.      Action Summary Minutes
          Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
          Board Meeting of September 28, 2023.
          Action: Approved the Action Summary Minutes
  2.      New Board Policy - Meal and Refreshment Policy
          Recommendation: Approve the Meal and Refreshment Policy for
          implementation.
          Action: Approved the Meal and Refreshment Policy for implementation.
  3.      Adopt Resolution -           Voluntary Rate Range Program (VRRP)
          Intergovernmental Transfer (IGT) Program from January 1, 2022 through
          December 31, 2022.
          Recommendation: Adopt Resolution reauthorizing the Fire Chief to enter into
          necessary agreements with DHCS to participate in the VRRP IGT covering the
          period of January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2022.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-071 reauthorizing the Fire Chief to enter into
      necessary agreements with DHCS to participate in the VRRP IGT covering the
      period of January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2022.

      This item was pulled from the agenda - no action was taken
4.    Adopt Resolution Contract Award Oi.1mer Advisor for Zinfande-1
      Phase 3 Buildout Project.
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the Request for Exception to Formal
      SG«citation Process and award a contract to Abercrombie Planning+Desigfl-:-

5.    Adopt Resolution - Surplus Vehicle Designation
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution designating the vehicles listed as surplus.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-072 designating the vehicles listed as surplus.

6.    Purchase Approval - Six (6) Ambulance Remounts
      Recommendation: Approve the remounting of these six (6) Ambulances by Leader
      Industries.
      Action: Approved the remounting of six (6) Ambulances by Leader Industries.

PRESENTATION ITEMS

1.    Fiscal Year 2024-25 Pension Plan Actuarial Valuations by the California
      Public Employees' Retirement System
      (CFO Dave O'Toole)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation and accept the assessed actuarial report.
      Action: Presentation received; accepted the assessed actuarial report.

2.    Standards of Cover Presentation
      (Chief Development Officer Jeff Frye & GIS Data Analyst Jake Wheaten)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation.
      Action: Presentation received.

ACTION ITEMS

1.    Adopt Resolution - Acquisition of Real Property - Grantline 220 Future
      Fire Station Site
      (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
      Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to affect the acquisition of
      real property for a future fire station site in the Grantline 220 project area.
      Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by
      members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-073 authorizing the Acquisition of Real
      Property for future Fire Station in the Grantline 220 Project Area.




10.26.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                 Page 2 of 9
REPORTS

1.    PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Clark)

      No Report

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -        (Chief House)

     1. Members
         a. Thank you to everyone who had a part in planning and assisting with the
            Transfer of Command Ceremony. It took a lot of work by many members,
            divisions, and regional partners, and your efforts did not go unnoticed. The
            ceremony was beyond perfect and a true testament to who we are as a
            department. I am honored to serve alongside each of you and am grateful for
            the support from those in attendance.

          b. E25 B-Shift
                 i. Captain Greg Lynch
                ii. Engineer Cody Burdette
               iii. Firefighter Michael Christenson

             Captain Lynch is the VP of the Metro FF Association & Engineer Burdette is the
             Secretary. They are working on a retirement dinner to recognize recent retirees
             and individuals who retired during the COVID pandemic. It is a huge
             undertaking with upwards of 300 guests if all retirees attend. This is a great
             example of the crew's selflessness and understanding of the importance of
             recognizing retirees' years of service and commitment to the District and
             community. Thank you for ensuring that our members receive the recognition
             they deserve.

     2. Reassignment(s)
         a. Congratulations to Captain Chris Kellogg for being selected to fill the EMS Day
            Captain assignment effective October 22.

     3. Recruitment(s)
        The District is accepting:
         a. Letters of Interest for the position of Chief Pilot in the Air Operations Division
            with a final filing date of November 17, by 4:00 PM.

      Congratulations to the following personnel who were selected as Public Information
      Officer (PIO) Relief:
           i. Captain Anthony Glenn
          ii. Captain Mark Nunez
         iii. Captain Andrew Whaley




10.26.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 3 of 9
       4. Meetings
           a. Chiefs Mitchell, Wagaman, Lozano, and I attended the CalChiefs Annual
              conference last week in Ontario.

           b. Seven (7) staff members and Director Webber attended the Citrus Heights
              State of the City Address.
           c. There was a great turnout at the Rio Linda/Elverta Park District Fundraising
              Event for Restoration of Fire Truck #2.
           d. Metro Fire staff and representatives from the City of Citrus Heights met this
              week for our quarterly 2x2 meeting. Topics of discussion:

                  i.      Year-to-date city statistics, including Fourth of July
                 ii.      Recent community relations events within the City
                iii.      Standards of Cover Update
           e. Labor-Management Collaboration Meeting yesterday.

           f.          Sacramento County Fire Chiefs Association Meeting.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

1. Squad 61 Update

   •    Happy to report that we continue towards reaching our goal of opening an additional
        first responder, Squad 61, on or before November 15th -
   •    This will allow us to continue expand upon on the great work that Squad 24 has done
        in proving the concept and the value to our community.
   •    We are also working on developing the plan for further expansion of this program, as
        well as a number of other programs (i.e. BLS ambulances, Telemedicine, and MIH), in
        alignment with the Board's strategic plan. Finishing the Standard of Cover is a key
        component of this process, which allows us to make data driven, responsible, and
        sustainable decisions for service delivery that benefit our members and the community
        we serve.

2. Wildland Season

   •    Due to weather, we've been experiencing, the long term outlooks and forecasts, and
        fuel moistures, Metro Fire and all of our partners in the County will be transitioning out
        of peak wild land season at 0800 on November 1st. The dozer will move to a call when
        needed status, as will Air Operations when the division returns to an available status.
   •    Dispatch levels will move to a decreased winter response.

3. CERT Update

   •     CERT basic ends this Saturday, we have 26 students that will complete the course,
         and are looking forward to adding all 26 participants to our CERT ranks. Advanced
         CERT training will take place over the coming months.
10.26.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 4 of 9
       •   This group will take us to approximately 45 members, and is the largest group we've
           seen since COVIO.

    4. Crew Highlight

       •   Back on October 13th , our members received a unique request through Joe Pick of the
           Burn Institute. He asked if we had the ability to offer some help to a FF from Bend,
           Oregon. This FF was traveling in an RV with his wife to Sacramento to be with his
           mother. She had been admitted to the UCO Medical Center with severe traumatic
           injuries following a vehicle accident that took his father's life.
       •   I'm proud to report that the crew at Station 62 were contacted that day and happily
           stepped up to the plate.
       •   When the FF and his wife arrived at 62, the crew fed them dinner and provided
           transportation to UCO to get him there to see his mother prior to visiting hours ending.
       •   Although they are not present this evening, I am incredibly proud and honored to
           recognize E62 Captain Mike Rowan (CB), Eng. Chris Botto, and FF Ryan McClain and
           M62 FF Alexander Pibl and FF Wayne Horton for their kindness and compassion. And
           a big thank you to BC Chris Vestal and AC Joe Fiorica for their support of the plan .
       •   This event highlights the great men and women we have, and reinforces their
           dedication to serve others and the camaraderie that is the fabric of Metro Fire and the
           fire service as a whole.

    ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Bailey)

    COMMUNITY RELATIONS DIVISION
•   Completed Transfer of Command Ceremony
•   Open House at Station 109 on Sunday, November 5 from 9099-1100 hrs. (flyer attached)
•   Attended State of the City - Citrus Heights 10/23 and will attend State of the City - Rancho
    Cordova 11/1.
•   Yearbook portrait make-ups on November 7, 9, 11 - questions can be directed to Brenda Briggs.

    FINANCE
•   Board members who have not yet submitted the fraud risk survey responses from our new
    auditor, Badawi and Associates, are asked to submit responses by October 31, 2023.

    PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT
•   Jeff Frye met with Rio Linda Recreation and Park District's Safety and Security Committee to
    discuss the wildfire risk in its jurisdiction and the role parks and recreation districts play in fire
    prevention and mitigation. We also discussed preparation (i.e. training) and response as it
    pertains to Battalion 5 operations. The standards of cover is a great tool to facilitate these
    discussions and we've promised to continue to help them develop their planning efforts.

    RECRUITMENT & OUTREACH
•   Fire District HERo Girls Fire Camp October 7th and 8th.
                o 2 of our women firefighters volunteered, Julie Whitney and Nicole Barflnecht
•   Captain James Ellis assisted with the Sac State job fair last week.
    10.26.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                               Page 5 of 9
•   Recruitment event at SCTC this Saturday, October 21, 2023.
•   Sierra College Public Safety Career Fair November 8, 2023.
•   Time will be meeting with SAVA's Fire Tech to see how we can assist.
•   Preparing for the next semester of Del Campo Fire Explorers starting January 1, 2024.

    HUMAN RESOURCES
•   Office Technician Testing is the week of 10/30/23
•   Fire Mechanic closes 10/31/23
•   Chief Pilot closes 11/17/2023

    BACKGROUNDS
•   24-1 Fire Academy Background:
               o 9 external Firefighters
               o 9 Internal Paramedics
•   1 MI H Provider
•   1 EMS System Technician -background orientation on 11/1/23
•   MMP - background orientation on 10/25/23
               o 5 Paramedics
               o 65 EMTs
•   2 Paramedics deferred from MMP 23-2

    SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT (Deputy Chief Tyler Wagaman)
    Logistics:
       1. Loading the last of 3 new engines with hose this week so it can go into service.
      2. Helped with the set up for the Transfer of Command.
      3. Yearly ladder testing begins next week and goes through the first part of December.
          Every ladder on every apparatus gets tested as well as Logistics ladder inventory.
          Over 300 ladders

    Facilities:
       1. Fire Station 101 kitchen build back is complete and insurance reimbursement has
            been finalized .
       2. Fire Station 105 kitchen build back is complete and insurance reimbursement has
            been finalized .
       3. Fire station 103 reroof is complete.
       4. Fire Station 108 reroof is under way and expected to be completed this week.
       5. Fire Station 29 water heater emergency replacement is complete.
       6 . Lockers have been installed at Fire Station 61 is preparation for the roll out of squad
            61.

    Fleet:
       1. New Water Tender has arrived.
       2. G26 24132 has been deemed a total loss by the insurance adjuster.


    10.26.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 6 of 9
Communications:
  1. Station 61 Alerting system has been configured preparatory for the Squad
     implementation as part of the Service Delivery updates.
  2. Station 105 Alerting system has been restored after fire and has a new Gas Shut-Off
     Valve that will prevent future oven fires.
  3. Recently finished the Communications Equipment installs on Three (3) new Type I
     Engines.

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Vice President Matt Cole)
Matt Cole commended CFO Dave O'Toole on his CalPERS Actuarial Valuations
presentation. He also commended the team that worked on the Standards of Cover item and
expressed his thanks on the collaborative process. On Saturday, October 14, 2023, the
California Firefighters Memorial took place in Sacramento, Mr. Cole thanked the Board and
staff for attending. Engineer Kyle Rutherford and Retired Captain Jeffrey Vitti's names were
added to the wall this year. President Trevor Jamison is in Washington D.C. right now with
Placer Business Alliance.

4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
      10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

      A.      Executive Committee - (President Clark)
              Next Meeting: TBD
               No Report.

      B.      Communications Center JPA - (AC Greene)

               No Report

       C.      Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
               Next Meeting: October 26, 2023 at 5:00 PM
               Met tonight, CFO Dave O'Toole presented the Bimonthly Fiscal Report and the
               takeaways were: Actual August 31, 2023 General Fund cash is $18 million
               higher than the prior year; overall General Fund revenues off to a slow start,
               $2.4 million less than Final Budget forecast; monthly PPFEMT Revenues
               increasing, but now a $8.6 million debt owed for prior months' transports;
               General Fund expenditures $14 lower than Final Budget. Next meeting will be
               in January.

       D.      Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
               Next Meeting: November 9, 2023

               No Report



10.26.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                      Page 7 of 9
BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Costa thank you for the great presentations tonight and this organization is moving in
the right direction. Thanked Chief House for his leadership.

Director Sheetz expressed gratitude to Chief Reed and Station 29 for attending a student
counsel event with me. Great presentations tonight.

Director Jones & Saylors both echoed the comments of their fellow Board Members on the
excellent presentations tonight and the positive direction the District is moving.

Director Wood stated he is proud to be part of such a high performing organization . Chief
Mitchell thanks for acknowledging under the crew highlight, Station 62. Transfer of
Command Ceremony was fabulous and that Chief House took time out of his ceremony to
acknowledge Parker Wilbourn was fantastic. Attended the beautiful memorial in Sacramento.
The Firefighters Burn Institute event Heroes, Hops & Hot Rods is on Saturday, November 4 th
from 2 to 7 p.m. in Stockton.

President Clark great Transfer of Command Ceremony.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to Closed Session at 7:46 p.m. on the following matter:

1.     PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION § 54956.9 (A) -
       ONE (1) MATTER OF WORKERS COMPENSATION COMPROMISE AND
       RELEASE:

       1. Joseph Reyes and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
       Claim #ADJ480790, ADJ13186340, ADJ9769950, ADJ13186341 , ADJ13186339,
       ADJ13186342, ADJ13749286 - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority- Tyler
       Sonksen of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

       Motion by Director Goold, seconded by Director Costa and carried unanimously by
       members present to provide authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a
       settlement.

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

The Board reconvened to open session at 8:04 p.m. and President Clark reported the Board
considered in closed session the workers compensation matter of employee Joseph Reyes.
The Board unanimously voted to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a
settlement of that matter.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:
https://metrofire.ca.gov/2023-10-26-board-meeting
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA
10.26.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 8 of 9
ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:05 p.m.




  D'ElmanCla~                                     Ted Wood, Secretary




10.26.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                         Page 9 of 9
