                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief

                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                            Thursday, October 26, 2023 – 6:00 PM
                                             Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                                  10545 Armstrong Avenue
D’Elman Clark
                                                 Board Room – Second Floor
Board President                                       Mather, California
Division 6                                                    &
Grant Goold                                          Remotely Via Zoom
Board Vice President                             Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Division 2
                                                    Passcode: metro2101
Ted Wood                                  Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Board Secretary
Division 4                                         Passcode: 838771796 #
                        https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFlLQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Cinthia Saylors
Board Member
Division 1
                       The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Robert Webber              and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.
Board Member
Division 3

Jennifer Sheetz        The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Board Member           the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
Division 5
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
Brian Rice             Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 7
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Gay Jones              reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Board Member           reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
Division 8
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
John Costa             accommodations:
Board Member
Division 9
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2023


 CALL TO ORDER

 ROLL CALL

 PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District will be cablecast on Metro Cable
14, the local government affairs channel on Comcast, Consolidated Communications and
AT&T U-Verse cable systems. This meeting is also webcast at metro14live.saccounty.gov.
Today’s meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday, October 30, 2023 and again at 1:00
p.m. on Wednesday, November 1, 2023 on Channel 14. This meeting can also be viewed
at youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers’ comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                  Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                          6
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meetings of September 28, 2023.

2.     New Board Policy – Meal and Refreshment Policy                                                                  15
       Recommendation: Approve the Meal and Refreshment Policy for
       implementation.
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2023


3.   Adopt Resolution – Voluntary Rate Range Program (VRRP)                     23
     Intergovernmental Transfer (IGT) Program from January 1, 2022 through
     December 31, 2022.
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution reauthorizing the Fire Chief to enter into
     necessary agreements with DHCS to participate in the VRRP IGT covering the
     period of January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2022.

4.   Adopt Resolution – Contract Award – Owner Advisor for Zinfandel       27
     Phase 3 Buildout Project.
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the Request for Exception to
     Formal Solicitation Process and award a contract to Abercrombie
     Planning+Design.

5.   Adopt Resolution – Surplus Vehicle Designation                               50
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution designating the vehicles listed as surplus.

6.   Purchase Approval – Six (6) Ambulance Remounts                      54
     Recommendation: Approve the remounting of these six (6) Ambulances by
     Leader Industries.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:
1.   Fiscal Year 2024-25 Pension Plan Actuarial Valuations by the California                                        59
     Public Employees’ Retirement System
     (CFO Dave O’Toole)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation and accept the assessed actuarial
     report.

2.   Standards of Cover Presentation                                                                                73
     (Chief Development Officer Jeff Frye & GIS Data Analyst Jake Whealen)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation.

ACTION ITEMS:

1.   Adopt Resolution – Acquisition of Real Property – Grantline 220 Future                 83
     Fire Station Site
     (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
     Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to affect the
     acquisition of real property for a future fire station site in the Grantline 220 project
     area.
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2023


REPORTS:
1.    PRESIDENT’S REPORT — (President Clark)

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT — (Chief House)
            OPERATIONS REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
            ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT – (Deputy Chief Bailey)
            SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT – (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

3.    SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice
      President)

4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
      Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

      A.    Executive Committee – (President Clark)
            Next Meeting: TBD

      B.    Communications Center JPA – (AC Greene)
            Next Meeting: October 24, 2023 at 9:00 AM

      C.    Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Wood)
            Met Today: October 26, 2023 at 5:00 PM

      D.     Policy Committee – (Director Costa)
             Next Meeting: November 9, 2023

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matters:

1.    PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION § 54956.9 (A) –
      ONE (1) MATTER OF WORKERS COMPENSATION COMPROMISE AND
      RELEASE:

      1. Joseph Reyes and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      Claim # ADJ480790, ADJ13186340, ADJ9769950, ADJ13186341, ADJ13186339,
      ADJ13186342, ADJ13749286 – Workers Compensation Settlement Authority –
      Tyler Sonksen of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2023


ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •     Regular Board Meeting – November 9, 2023 at 6:00 PM
     •     Regular Board Meeting – December 14, 2023 at 6:00 PM

Posted on October 23, 2023 by 4:30 p.m.


_____________________________________
Marni Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
**       Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
