                                                                           Unapproved

      SACRAMENTO COUNTY COMMITTEE ON SCHOOL DISTRICT ORGANIZATION
                  Minutes of the Meeting of September 9, 2021
                     VIA ZOOM/TELECONFERENCE CALL

I.       Call to Order and Roll Call
II.      Pledge of Allegiance
III.     Adoption of Agenda
IV.      Visitor Presentations
         A. General Public
V.       New Business
         A. Public Hearing and Action on Elk Grove Unified School District’s Proposal
            Under Education Code Section 5019 to Change Election Methods and
             Establish Sequence of Elections; Action on Resolution No. CC-21-02
VI.      Adjournment

I.         Chair Talamantes called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. via teleconference
call in Sacramento, California. Board members present were Joanne Ahola, Al Brown,
Heather Davis, Harold Fong, Paul Keefer, Bina Lefkovitz, and Karina Talamantes. Also
present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the County
Committee; Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; other staff and visitors; and Wende
Watson, Executive Assistant.

II.         Committee Member Fong led the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.       Committee Member Keefer moved, and Committee Member Brown seconded
adoption of the agenda. Motion carried 7 ayes, 0 noes, 0 absent, 0 abstentions based
on the following Roll Call vote:

Ms. Lefkovitz – yes
Mr. Keefer – yes
Mr. Fong – yes
Ms. Davis – yes
Mr. Brown – yes
Ms. Ahola – yes
Ms. Talamantes – yes

IV.A.       General Public

There were no public comments.

V.A.       Chair Talamantes announced the Sacramento County Committee on School
District Organization will hold a public hearing on the Elk Grove Unified School District’s
proposal to change its method of electing governing board members and establish the
sequence of elections.

Currently, Elk Grove’s seven board members are elected under a “hybrid at-large”
system, where one member residing within each of the seven currently existing trustee
areas is elected by the registered voters of the entire school district. Elk Grove
proposes, effective for the November 2022 election, to change its election method so


                                         21-6-CC
one board member residing within each trustee area will be elected by the registered
voters residing in that trustee area (“by-trustee area” elections).

This public hearing will provide the opportunity for public comment and input regarding
Elk Grove’s proposal to change election methods. At the conclusion of the public
hearing, the County Committee may approve or deny Elk Grove’s proposal.

Chair Talamantes opened the Public Hearing at 6:35 p.m.

Tim Herrera read public comments from the following:

Scott Rafferty
Joel Boyd

Chair Talamantes closed the Public Hearing at 7:05 p.m.

EGUSD’s proposal was presented by Dr. Crystal Martinez-Alire, Clerk, Elk Grove
Unified School District Board of Education; Christopher R. Hoffman, Superintendent, Elk
Grove Unified School District Board of Education; Robert Pierce, Deputy
Superintendent, Business Services & Facilities, Elk Grove Unified School District;
Douglas Johnson, President, National Demographics Corporation; and Michelle
Cannon, Lozano Smith.

The EGUSD proposal and public comments were heard and considered, and the
committee deliberated. Chair Talamantes then asked if there was a motion to approve
or deny Elk Grove’s proposal.

Committee Member Davis moved, and Committee Member Brown seconded the motion
to adopt Resolution No. CC-21-02 approving the Elk Grove Unified School District’s
proposal to change to by trustee area elections. Motion carried 6 ayes, 1 no (Fong), 0
absent, 0 abstentions based on the following Roll Call vote:

Ms. Lefkovitz – yes
Mr. Keefer – yes
Mr. Fong – no
Ms. Davis – yes
Mr. Brown – yes
Ms. Ahola – yes
Ms. Talamantes – yes

VI.       Committee Member Keefer moved, and Committee Member Davis seconded
the motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn which carried 7 ayes, 0 noes, 0 absent, 0
abstentions based on the following Roll Call vote:

Ms. Lefkovitz – yes
Mr. Keefer – yes
Mr. Fong – yes
Ms. Davis – yes
Mr. Brown – yes
Ms. Ahola – yes
Ms. Talamantes – yes
                                       21-7-CC
Meeting adjourned at 7:35 p.m.

                                 Respectfully submitted,



                                 David W. Gordon
                                 Secretary to the County Committee

Date approved:




                                 21-8-CC
