Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, December 10, 2024

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Brown called the regular meeting to order at 6:33 p.m.

Other Board members present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Heather Davis, Harold
Fong, Paul Keefer, Bina Lefkovitz, and Vanessa Caigoy. SCOE Appointed Board
Member Representing Students Judith Marquez was present.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Dr.
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer, Assistant Superintendents Michael Kast and
Jacqueline “Jackie” White; Executive Directors Xanthi Soriano, Kristin Wright, and Jerry
Jones; Human Resources Chief Administrator Darrien Slider-Johnson, and Executive
Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Keefer led the Pledge of Allegiance. President Brown read the Land
Acknowledgement.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

There was one public comment from Marina Harps regarding the data about the State
of Black Students in Sacramento.

B. Employee Organizations

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of October 8, 2024


12.10.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         1
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of October 8, 2024 by
Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to approve the adoption of the agenda as presented by Trustee Fong, second
by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Youth Report

A. SCOE Schools Youth Advisory - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent Jackie White introduced the SCOE Schools Youth Advisory
report which was led by Curriculum Specialist Charley Gilmore.

7. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

In November, in honor of National Native American Heritage Month, the College and
Career Team hosted a Mentor MIX that featured a panel of leaders from the
Sacramento Native American community who shared their experiences as they related
to the intersection and impact of the Arts and Mentoring on our youth. Thank you,
Trustee Lefkovitz, for attending.

Also in November, SCOE hosted a Shared Learning Session on Differentiated
Assistance for Legislative and State Policy staff. The program focused on building
collaborative practices across California's county offices of education and how they
support school districts and charter schools to study their student data and implement
targeted plans to improve outcomes. Attendees explored the historical and policy
context, the process from eligibility to outcomes, and the roles within California’s
Statewide System of Support. Insights shared align with WestEd's findings on
differentiated assistance, emphasizing tailored strategies to meet district and student


12.10.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            2
needs while fostering equity and capacity-building.

On December 3, we celebrated a graduation at the Scottish Rite Masonic Center for
124 students who received their high school diplomas. Our keynote speaker was Dr.
Lisa Cardoza, president of American River College. Thank you, President Brown and
Trustee Lefkovitz for attending.

On December 5, together with the California County Superintendents and the CA Policy
Collaborative, we hosted a Universal Prekindergarten (UPK) site visit at Las Palmas
Elementary. Participants, including members of Early Childhood Education and TK-12
School Systems cohorts, observed preschool and transitional kindergarten classrooms,
engaged with educators, and shared insights on bridging early childhood and public
education systems. The event showcased the strength of partnerships and highlighted
innovative practices shaping California’s early learning programs.

A published ScienceDirect article, “We Will Build Together: Sowing the Seeds of SEL
Statewide,” features SCOE Social Emotional Learning (SEL) work with CalHOPE and
was chosen by the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning
(CASEL) to be listed as one of five “must reads” in the recent CASEL SEL Journal. This
article was co-authored by Associate Superintendent Brent Malicote; Assistant
Superintendent Channa Pitt; Director of SEL, Mai Xi Lee, and Executive Director for
School-Based Mental Health and Wellness, Chris Williams—among others.

On November 21, the Sly Park Environmental Education Center received a letter from
the Partnership for Quality Living, announcing its induction into the Hall of Honor as a
"Regional Treasure." This prestigious recognition celebrates the outstanding
contributions of Sly Park in making the Superior California region a healthier place to
live, learn, work, and play. Of note is Sly Park's environmental education curriculum and
its positive impact on students that earned this esteemed recognition. The induction
ceremony will take place during the California Park & Recreation Society District 2
Awards and Installation Banquet on Wednesday, February 26, at the Rocklin Event
Center.

During the SCOE Season of Giving we received 55 frozen turkeys for the Sacramento
Food Bank & Family Services. Thanks to Special Education Coordinator Robin Ryan
who organizes this annual effort.

SCOE was well-represented at the Run to Feed the Hungry, with over a dozen
participants. Thank you to Steven Hicks, Coordinator from Early Learning who led this
fun activity.

The College & Career Readiness Department, in collaboration with PRO Youth &
Family Collective, hosted a Holiday Meal Drive to provide holiday meals for students


12.10.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          3
and families from El Centro, Elinor L. Hickey, Nathaniel S. Colley, Palmiter, Senior
Extension, and CARE programs.

Other contributions to date include funds raised for the Gary K. Hart Resiliency
Scholarship, book donations for El Centro’s “Deck the Hall” fundraiser, and gift items
collected for families served by Special Education and Early Learning. Unwrapped gifts
for the Sacramento County Sheriff’s Toy Project will be delivered to support families in
need on December 13.

On December 11, SCOE will host a Winter-themed Celebration, “A Celebration of
Lights” at the David P. Meaney Educational Center at 8:00 a.m. followed by the
“Luminous Lane Tour” from 12:00-3:00 p.m. where departments in the Mather area
decorated their office space as “Points of Light” and welcomed colleagues to connect
and collaborate.

The National School Board Association is hosting their annual conference in Atlanta,
Georgia on April 4-6, 2025. This event brings together education leaders from across
the country, offering a unique opportunity to learn about best governance practices, gain
insights into child development, and explore innovative programs and technology to
enrich student learning.

President Brown, Vice President Corona Sabeniano, Trustees Caigoy, Lefkovitz, and
Fong, SCOE Appointed Board Member representing Students Marquez and
Superintendent Gordon attended the California School Board Association (CSBA)
Annual Education Conference (AEC) in Anaheim last week. While attending the event
Ms. Marquez served on the Student Board Member Panel Discussion.

During the conference, on December 5, SCOE received a Golden Bell Award for
excellence in education led by the Arts and Mentoring team in the College and Career
Department. Assistant Superintendent White, Board President Brown, and
Superintendent Gordon were present to accept the Golden Bell award on the team’s
behalf in recognition of their innovative programs, collective impact model, and direct
impact on students in Sacramento County.

To conclude the Superintendent’s Report, Assistant Superintendent Jackie White
introduced our Arts and Mentoring team that facilitates the programs that earned the
Golden Bell Award. The team includes Jane Collier, Director of Arts and Career
Education; Jasmin Martinez, Arts Integration Coordinator; and Tania Hernandez,
Mentoring Coordinator.

B. Recognition of the January Employees of the Month - Xanthi Soriano




12.10.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             4
Devon Nevarez, Staff Secretary with Special Education, was recognized and honored
as January Classified Employee of the Month.

Daniel Appel-Boarman, Orientation and Mobility Specialist with Special Education, was
recognized and honored as January Certificated Employee of the Month.

8. Charter Report

A. American River Collegiate Academy Charter Annual Report - Dr. Nancy Herota

Dr. Nancy Herota, Associate Superintendent, introduced Dr. Shela Seaton, SCOE’s
consultant who presented the ARCA Charter School 2023-24 Annual Oversight report.

Suzanne Parrett, Principal, led the ARCA report.

B. NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING and Action on Resolution No. 24-22 - to Approve
Amendments to Memorandum of Understanding with American River Collegiate
Academy Charter School - Teresa Stinson

The public hearing opened at 8:17 p.m.
There were no public comments.
The public hearing closed at 8:17 p.m.

Motion to approve Resolution No. 24-22 to Approve Amendments to Memorandum of
Understanding with American River Collegiate Academy Charter School by Trustee
Caigoy, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy
No: Fong

9. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Corona
Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Fong
Not Present at Vote: Lefkovitz

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson


12.10.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          5
C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent Jackie White announced that the following students will be
awarded diplomas: one candidate from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School and one candidate
from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Sr. Extension.

10. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve contracts as presented by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Corona
Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Fong
Not Present at Vote: Lefkovitz

11. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget -
David W. Gordon

Motion to approve authorization to submit grant applications/service contracts and
accept funding if awarded; and approval of contracts, positions, and other expenditures
associated with the grants as outlined in the proposed budget by Trustee Davis, second
by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

A. Parent Cafe Training Coordination and Implementation Contract Grant - Dr. Channa
Pitt

B. California Math, Science, and Computer Science (CAL-MSCS) Partnership Program
Grant - Jacqueline White

12. New Business - Other

A. Approval of the First Interim Financial Report and Budget Revision No. 1 for 2024-
2025 - Nicolas Schweizer




12.10.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          6
Associate Superintendent Schweizer introduced Budget Committee Chair Heather
Davis to present the First Interim Financial Report and Budget Revision No. 1 for 2024-
2025.

Motion to approve by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

B. Consideration and Adoption of Resolution No. 24-21 - Authorizing Five Percent
Increase in Board Member Compensation - Teresa Stinson

General Counsel Teresa Stinson presented Resolution No. 24-21 - Authorizing Five
Percent Increase in Board Member Compensation for consideration.

Move to approve by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy
No: Corona Sabeniano

C. Board Report - Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Update - Dr. Channa Pitt/Kristin
Wright

Executive Director Kristin Wright and Coordinators Veronica Ruiz and Stephanie
Coleman presented the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Update.

13. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Fong requested that the previously approved Resolution (17-05 Resolution in
Support of Creating a Safe and Positive Learning Environment) be reviewed. He
expressed appreciation for the speaker who made a public comment on the African
American data. Trustee Fong suggested that SCOE staff look for schools or districts
that are successfully closing the achievement gap and report back to the Board. He
stated that while he was at the California School Board Association (CSBA) Conference
he attended a presentation on closing the achievement gap for any socioeconomic
group. Trustee Fong requested an overview on the status of the education of Hispanic
students in our county. He reported that he visited Miracle University to observe
programs and talk with students and expressed interest in a study around dropout
programs.



12.10.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            7
Trustee Caigoy requested that the Literacy Resolution (24-18 Sacramento County
Reads Board Literacy Resolution) be reviewed and suggested that the lowest
performing subgroups be identified within the resolution.

SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing Student Judith Marquez reported that at
the first meeting with students held at Colley and E.L. Hickey, kids had suggestions for
activities and trips. Ms. Marquez reported that the week before Thanksgiving she
facilitated a gratitude activity with young women in juvenile hall where one participant
expressed her gratitude for a year of sobriety. She stated that bringing rehabilitation
programs into juvenile hall and the schools would be beneficial and emphasized the
importance of showing justice involved youth alternate lifestyles.

Trustee Keefer expressed appreciation for the comments from Ms. Marquez about
raising awareness for student needs. He wished everyone happy holidays and stated
that closing the achievement gap requires three things: courage, commitment, and
relentless pressure. He noted that the way we know that we are having success is by
measuring the progress of students.

Trustee Davis commented that she would like to look into bringing substance abuse
programs for youth, specifically Narcotics Anonymous groups, into schools.

Trustee Lefkovitz thanked Ms. Marquez for highlighting student needs and
acknowledged Assistant Superintendent White for the excellent job preparing the young
people who presented during tonight's meeting. She requested more discussion around
closing the achievement gap and expressed interest in investing in a study of dropout
programs. Trustee Lefkovitz closed by wishing everyone a happy holiday.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano stated that she attended a session at the CSBA AEC
regarding a federal update about how to prepare schools and districts to comply with
California law because California is a sanctuary state. She reported that she attended
another presentation regarding the state seal of civic engagement which highlighted the
successful model by the Anaheim Union High School District.

B. Board President

President Brown stated that he went to the CSBA Conference and while there he
attended a session where Laurie Santos, psychologist and host of the podcast “The
Happiness Lab,” spoke about what makes us happy. He also attended a California
School Board Ethics Training Course and referenced Assembly Bill 2158 which
mandates school district governing boards, county boards of education and charter
school governing bodies to complete ethics training every two years during their term of
service.




12.10.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         8
C. Committees

14. Items for Distribution

A. December Events and Site Visits

15. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. January 14, 2025 and February 4, 2025

16. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Trustee Fong made a motion to adjourn the meeting in memory of James Herbert,
Custodian, in recognition of his contributions to SCOE; second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

The meeting adjourned at 9:47 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon

Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




12.10.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                      9
