       1           I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
  ~of#                  10545 Armstrong Ave. , Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone {916) 859-4300 • Fax {916) 859-3700

  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA

                                             Thursday, October 9, 2025 - 6:00 PM
Ted Wood
                                             Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                    10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4
                                                  Board Room - Second Floor
John Costa                                             Mather, California
Board Vice President                                           &
Division 9
                                                      Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                    Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                      Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                           Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                     ir Passcode: 8387.71796 #
Board Member             https://us06web.zoom .us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQV h4d 1VWZz09
Division 1


Grant Goold
Board Member           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D'Elman Clark
Board Member
                       Application, please click on the link above.
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member           accommodations:
Division 8
                                                                Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                                (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave. , Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (91 6) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2025


►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV Li-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video-
streamed at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov. Today's meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
October 13, 2025, and again at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, October 15, 2025, on Metro
Cable Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand
at voutube.coml metrocable 14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the
presiding officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the
interest of time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations.
Speakers' comments will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures,
members of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting
record must be present or have a representative present to read their comments during
the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral
of issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly
approval, declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent
Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion
and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                      Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                               6
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of September 11, 2025.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2025


PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.   Fire Station Design Engagement Plan                                                                                13
     (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
     Recommendation: Receive the presentation.

ACTION ITEIVIS:
1.   Purchase Approval - 107' Tractor Drawn Aerial                                    22
     (Shea Pursell, Fleet Manager)
     Recommendation: Approve the Purchase of a 107' Tractor Drawn Aerial from
     Golden State Fire Apparatus, Inc., utilizing Sourcewell contract #113021-OKC, ID
     #234.
2.   Purchase Approval - Heavy Rescue Unit                                     26
     (Shea Pursell, Fleet Manager)
     Recommendation: Approve the Purchase of a Heavy Rescue Unit from Golden State
     Fire Apparatus, Inc., utilizing Sourcewell contract #113021-OKC, ID #271.

3.   Adopt Resolutions - FY 2024 State Homeland Security Grant Program                  30
     (SHSGP) Award
     (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution accepting the FY24 SHSGP Grant and
     authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to execute all required documents for the
     administration of the grant award. Adopt Resolution to amend the FY 2025/2026 Final
     Budget for Grant Fund 212G.

4.   Adopt Resolution -Pre-Qualified Shortlist - Architecture and Engineering         33
     Services
     (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution establishing a Pre-Qualified Shortlist for a five-
     year term comprised of the five highest-scoring firms.

REPORTS:

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                (President Wood)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -              (Chief House)

           OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell) - No Report

           ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica) - No Report

           SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman) - No Report
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2025


3.    SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
      522 Vice President)

4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
      Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

      A.     Executive Committee - (President Wood)
             Next Meeting: TBD

      B.     Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
             Next Meeting: October 14, 2025, at 9:00 AM
             SRFECC Annex - 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite 8, Sacramento

      C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
             Next Meeting: October 23, 2025, at 5:30 PM

      D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
             Next Meeting: November 13, 2025, at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter(s):
1.    CONFERENCE WITH LABOR NEGOTIATOR
      Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6
      A. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522
      B. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522
      C. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522
      D. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees
      E. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees
      F. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: EMT and Paramedic Memorandum of Understanding
                      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                      10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 : Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                      THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2025


2. CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA
   GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9(d)
                 Significant exposure to litigation pursuant to Paragraph (2) of subdivision
                 (d) of section 54956.9. Activities/incidenUdiscussion with and among staff
                 at Station 106 on September 4, 2025.

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

    •   Regular Board Meeting - October 23, 2025, at 6:00 PM

Posted on October 6, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.



Marni Rittburg~ c,cpM
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
1EJI Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility.              •
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~u,~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief            ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING
                                     BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                             SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                             Thursday, September 11, 2025 at 6:00 PM
                                      Held at the following locations:
                                  10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                             Mather, California
                                                      &
                                            Remotely Via Zoom
   CALL TO ORDER

   The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
   Clark, Costa, Jones, Saylors, Stark, Webber, and Wood. Board members absent: Goold and
   Rice. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.
           '
   PUBLIC COMMENTS

   One public comment was received from Roger Mitchell.

   CONSENT ITEMS
   Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by members
   present to adopt the consent calendar as follows:
   1.          Adopt Resolution - Fiscal Year 2025/26 Gann Appropriations Limit
               Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution approving the Gann Appropriations Limit in
               Fiscal Year 2025/26 in the amount of $482,810,598.
               Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-060.
   PRESENTATION ITEMS

   1.          Ambulance and First Responder Fee Study
               (Chief Financial Officer Dave O'Toole)
               (Nicole Huerta, Senior Analyst, NBS Consulting)
               (Nicole Kissam, Director, NBS Consulting)
               Recommendation: Receive the presentation.
               Action: Presentation received.
   ACTION ITEMS
   1.          Purchase Approval - Four (4) BME Type Ill Engines
               (Shea Pursell, Fleet Manager)
               Recommendation: Approve the Purchase of four {4) BME Type Ill Engines from Golden
               State Fire Apparatus, Inc., utilizing HGACBuy contract #FS12-23, Targhee.
               Action: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by
               members present to approve the Purchase of four (4) BME Type Ill Engines.


                                                                                                                P6
2.    Purchase Approval - Two (2) Pierce 107' Aerials
      (Shea Pursell, Fleet Manager)
      Recommendation: Approve the Purchase of two (2) Pierce Aerials from Golden State Fire
      Apparatus, Inc., utilizing HGACBuy contract #FS12-23, Model 23A-105.
      Action: Moved by Director Stark, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by
      members present to approve the Purchase of two (2) Pierce Aerials.

3.    Purchase Approval - Fifteen (15) Pierce Type I Engines
      (Shea Pursell, Fleet Manager)                            •
      Recommendation: Approve the Purchase of fifteen (15) Pierce Type I Engines from
      Golden State Fire Apparatus, Inc., utilizing HGACBuy contract #FS12-23, Model 23P-105.
      Action: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by
      members present to approve the Purchase of fifteen (15) Pierce Type I Engines.

4.    Adopt Resolution - Amendment to Capital Improvement Program Plan
      FY 2025126 - FY 2029/30
      (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation and adopt Resolution adopting the amended
      Capital Improvement Plan for FY 2025/2026 - FY 2029/2030.
      Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-061 adopting the amended Capital
      Improvement Plan FY 2025/2026 - FY 2029/2030.

5.    Adopt Resolution - FY 2025/26 Final Budget
      (Chief Financial Officer Dave O'Toole)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation and adopt the Resolutions adopting the Final
      Budget for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

      A. Resolution - 2025/26 Final Budget for the General Operating Fund 212A
      Action: Moved by Director Stark, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by members
      present to adopt Resolution 2025-062, Adopting the Final Budget for the General Operating
      Fund 212A for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      B. Resolution - 2025/26 Final Budget for the Capital Facilities Fund 212D
      Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by members
      present to adopt Resolution 2025-063, Adopting the Final Budget for the Capital Facilities
      Fund 212D for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      C. Resolution - 2025/26 Final Budget for the Pension Obligation Fund 212E
      Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by members
      present to adopt Resolution 2025-064, Adopting the Final Budget for the Pension Obligation
      Fund 212E for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      D. Resolution - 2025/26 Final Budget for the Grants Fund 212G
      Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously bY, members
      present to adopt Resolution 2025-065, Adopting the Final Budget for the Grants Fund 212G
      for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      E. Resolution - 2025/26 Final Budget for the Development Impact Fees Fund 2121
      Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by members
      present to adopt Resolution 2025-066, Adopting the Final Budget for the Development
      Impact Fees Fund 2121 for Fiscal Year 2025/26.


                                                                                                   P7
9.11.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 2 of 7
      F. Resolution - 2025/26 Final Budget for the Leased Properties Fund 212L
      Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by members
      present to adopt Resolution 2025-067, Adopting the Final Budget for the _Leased Properties
      Fund 212L for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      G. Resolution - 2025/26 Final Budget for the Measure O Debt Service Fund 212N
      Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by members
      present to adopt Resolution 2025-068, Adopting the Final Budget for the Measure O Debt
      Service Fund 212N for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      H. Resolution - 2025/26 Final Budget for the Measure O Building Fund 2120
      Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by members
      present to adopt Resolution 2025-069, Adopting the Final Budget for the Measure O Building
      Fund 2120 for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      I. Resolution - 2025/26 Final Budget for the Special Projects Fund 212S
      Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by members
      present to adopt Resolution 2025-070, Adopting the Final Budget for the Special Projects
      Fund 212S for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

6.    Appointments to Metro Fire/Folsom 2x2 Ad Hoc Committee
      (Ted Wood, Board President)
      Recommendation: Nominate and Appoint Two Board Members to the Metro Fire/Folsom
      2x2 Ad Hoc Committee.
      Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Clark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to appoint Director Goold and Jones to the Metro Fire/Folsom 2x2 Ad
      Hoc Committee.

7.    Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement- Michael Lozano
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
      finding Michael Lozand has suffered job-related injuries incapacitating him for the
      performance of duties as an Assistant Chief, and direct staff to continue working with
      Michael Lozano through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
      Action: None, item to be voted on after discussion in Closed Session.

REPORTS

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

     No Report

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -         (Acting Chief Mitchell)

Good evening, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public

On September 6, Station 111 hosted a well-attended Open House in conjunction with the
100th anniversary celebration of Old Betsy. Thank you to all staff who assisted with planning,
logistics, and staffing the event, as well as to those who attended this milestone event.

Metro Fire MMP 25-2

The MMP 25-2 class begins on Monday, September 15. As of September 9, there are 16
recruits. We welcome them and look forward to supporting their success as they begin the
academy.                                                                                           PB
9.11.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 3 of 7
Today, members participated in the 9/11 Memorial Stair Climb held downtown in the morning,
joining firefighters and community members in honoring the lives lost. In addition, Metro Fire
personnel were present at several remembrance events across the community, reflecting our
continued commitment to Never Forget. Both operations and professional staff represented
the District with professionalism and respect, and we thank them for their dedication on this
solemn day.

September 11 th :
Today, we take a moment to reflect on and honor the lives lost on September 11, 2001. This day
is forever etched in our hearts, not only as Americans but especially as members of the fire
service, where the legacy of bravery and sacrifice is deeply cherished.

We proudly carry forward the memory of the 343 FDNY firefighters who selflessly gave their lives
that day, along with the countless first responders and civilians whose courageous actions
continue to inspire us. September 11 serves as a poignant reminder of the true purpose and
calling of our profession: to safeguard lives, even in the face of significant personal risk.

While the tragedies of that day took place 3,0oo· miles away, Metro Fire members were among
those who answered the call and deployed to assist in recovery efforts at the World Trade Center
and the Pentagon following the September 11 attacks. They dedicated countless hours over
many days, working alongside other first responders under challenging conditions to conduct
search and rescue missions.

Their expertise was vital as they navigated debris and faced hazardous environments,
demonstrating remarkable resilience and determination. The spirit of solidarity among first
responders, including Metro Fire, exemplified the true essence of service and sacrifice during
those trying times.

For those of us in the fire service, this day inspires us to never forget and to continuously train,
prepare, and serve with unwavering dedication. While September 11 was undoubtedly a tragedy,
it also ignited a profound sense of national unity. Communities rallied together, neighbors
supported one another, and our country found strength in solidarity.

Today, as Metro Fire, we honor that spirit by fostering trust, resilience, and partnerships within
our own community. The impact of 9/11 continues to affect many, as numerous responders and
survivors face ongoing health challenges related to their service at Ground Zero. We stand with
them and honor their sacrifices.

On this solemn anniversary, we reaffirm our commitment to our core values of integrity,
professionalism, teamwork, and devotion to duty. We will always remember those we lost, the
families whose lives were altered, and the enduring examples of bravery that continue to guide
us.

Let us carry on our mIssIon to serve our community with pride and respect, honoring the
incredible sacrifices made. If you would entertain it, President Wood, I would like to request a
moment of silence at the conclusion of Board member comments before adjourning to closed
session.


                                                                                                       pg
9.11.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 4 of 7
OPERATIONS REPORT - (Assistant Chief Rudnicki)

AC Rudnicki, C Shift Commander, the 9/11 Stair Climb held today was remarkable. Read a
news article today that over 34,000 individuals have been diagnosed with 9/11 related
Cancer which is another staggering number. It's not just what we see during calls it's also
what we take home with us. It's a reminder that these calls have a lasting and lingering effect.

I'm proud to report that we have been able to support the state and our neighbors, and by
being able to deploy more resources this year than we have in recent years, while keeping an
eye out for brownouts and mandatories.

Shift Commander Spotlight:

BC Graf introduced Captain Hodge, who was promoted to Captain. Captain Hodge came to
the podium and introduced himself to the Board and spoke regarding his experiences at
Metro Fire.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
No Report

SUPPORT SERVICES - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

No Report

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522
   Vice President)

     Captain Scollard congratulated Captain Tucker Hodge on his promotion. I had the honor and
     privilege to join 342 of my colleagues today at the 9/11 Memorial Stair Climb. Labor
     Management meetings are in the MOU to be done quarterly. It's crazy to think that it's been
     24 years since that horrible day when we lost 343 Firefighters. It's important to remember the
     2,977 total American lives lost that day.

4.      COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
        All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
        10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

        A.       Executive Committee - (President Wood)
                 No Report

        8.       Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

        The Communication Center JPA Board last met on September 9, 2025. During that
        meeting the Board appointed Assistant Chief Matt McGee from Folsom was elected as
        the Board Chair and I was elected as the Vice Chair.

        The Communication Center staff presented Metro Fire with a token of appreciation for
        allowing the Communications Center board meetings to be held in these chambers for
        two decades.

        C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)

                 No Report
                                                                                                                     P10
9.11.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                         Page 5 of 7
      D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
      The Policy Committee met tonight on the amended Workplace Violence Policy, and
      moved to the full Board for approval

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Saylors extended a great thank you to Station 111 for hosting the Open House for
Old Betsy 100-year-old plaque, it was a great event. Thank you to everyone who participated
in the 9/11 Memorial Stair Climb this morning in remembrance of all the lives lost.

Director Jones, in remembrance of 9/11, 30% of the victims have still not been identified. The
New York City Office of the Chief Medical Examiner continues to work on the case, with
recent advancements in DNA technology enabling new identifications so there is still work to
be done.

President Wood echoed the comments of his fellow Board Members. Thank you to the crew
at Station 111 and everyone who helped make the Open House such a great success.

A moment of silence was held in honor of the victims of 9/11.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 7:53 p.m. on the following matter(s):

1.     Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) -one (1) matter
       of Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority

             Carl Jewell and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
             Claim # 4A2302G2GWK0001
             Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
             Colin Connor, Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

       Action: Moved by Clark, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by members
       present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a settlement of the
       matter.

2.     PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (a) -
       ONE (1) MATTER OF INDUSTRIAL DISABILITY RETIREMENT.

              Michael Lozano and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              Claim # 4A22054QPTC0001 - Industrial Disability Retirement
              Joseph Fiorica, Deputy Chief of Administration

3.     CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL-ANTICIPATED LITIGATION-
       Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
       Section 54956.9 (b): One Case
              Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
              Bradley Swetland v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              John Lavra, General Counsel

       Action: Moved by Saylors, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by members
       present to return the 910 Claim as late/untimely.
                                                                                                    P11
9.11.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 6 of 7
CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened in open session at 8: 18 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
that the Board met in closed session on three items: 1. Workers' Compensation Settlement
Authority of Carl Jewell, the Board voted unanimously to give authority to its third-party
administrator to conclude a settlement of the matter. 2. Industrial Disability Retirement, no
reportable action was taken in closed session; will be visited in open session. 3. 910 Claim of
Bradley Swetland, the Board voted unanimously to return the 910 Claim as late/untimely.

ACTION ITEM CONTINUED TO AFTER CLOSED SESSION:

1.    Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement - Michael Lozano
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
      finding Michael Lozano has suffered job-related injuries incapacitating him for the
      performance of duties as an Assistant Chief, and direct staff to continue working with
      Michael Lozano through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
      Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Jones, and carr,ied unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-071, finding AC Michael Lozano has
      suffered job-related injuries, incapacitating him for the performance of duties.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2025-09-11-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8: 19 p.m.



Ted Wood, Board President                           Robert Webber, Secretary



Marni Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk




                                                                                                  P12
9.11.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 7 of 7
                                           CT)
                                           ,-
                                           Cl..




     Fire Station Design
      Engagement Plan

             Presented by:
Erin Castleberry/ Planning & Development

            October 9, 2025
                                                                     <::t"
                                                                     .--
                                                                     a...
  1\\'tO METHoA

~~,~~~✓%
 m. !}
         .,:, ,
                  :oa:
                                   INTRODUCTION
  •• FIR'E:




    Purpose              '--
                               To enhance end-user confidence
                               and satisfaction with the design of
                               new stations.

    Desired                    •   Increased member buy-in and
    Outcomes                       ownership

                               •   More functional and effective
                                   design that meets operational
                                   and member needs
                                                                     LO
                                                                     .-
                                                                     a..




        Phase 1 (Pre-Project Engagement)
 What do we hope           Who will we             How will we
    to gain?                engage?                 engage?

   Consensus on            End-Users              Online Survey
   general design         Chief Officers
    priorities and        Support Staff
 recommendations

       [Goal]             [Stakeholders]            [Method]


What does success look like?       Representative mix of stations,
[Objective]                        rank, and years of service
                                                                        tO
                                                                        T'"""
                                                                        a..




     Phase 2_(Project-Specific Engage.ment)
 What do we hope           Who will we              How will we
    to gain?                engage?                  engage?

    Consensus on         End-users at all 4      Design Workshops
   project-specific          stations
       design                                      Design Review
                        Other targeted end
  {23, 42, 61, 112)
                               users

       [Goal]             [Stakeholders]             [Method]


What does success look like?        Participation from all 4 stations
[Objective]                         and from those who desire to be
                                    involved in the process
                                                             r-
                                                             ,-
                                                             a..




         Phase 1 (Launched August 18)
Survey Topics
• Design Sentiment         •   Chief Officers
• Ranking Design                ► Day-to-Day Operations
  Priorities                    ► Forward Looking Strategy
• Needs vs. Wants
• Wellness/Health/Safety   • _ Support Divisions
  Features                      ► Areas of Expertise
• Would You Rather
• Open-Ended Questions     •   Sign Up to Stay Involved
                                                                         OJ
                                                                         ,....
                                                                         a..
    ~~10 METHop

~~,~\~✓~
 EST.
    ,,  !)   :ace         IMPLEMENTATION
   - FIB:E: -


                    Did we ·meet our objectives? -
  • Participation of over 30%                   e Ef1JiTf Paramedic
                                                    Fir~fighter
                                                    Engirneer
   • Participation from every                   •   Captain

     station

   • Good mix of rank and years of
     service
                                                ■ Less than 5 years
                                                    5-10:years
   • Total of 80 who want to stay                   1H-20 ~,r,ears
                                                •   More than 20- yea~
     involved as we move into
     Phase 2 engagement
    -

                                                                      0)
                                                                      T"""
                                                                      a..




         Design Priorities & Recommendations
Station Design Priorities              Key Themes
•       Operational efficiency &       • Wellness & fitness
        function aIity                 • Living quarters
•       Member wellness, health &      • Durability of finishes and
        safety                           appliances
•       Durability of systems and      • Training features
        finishes                       • App bay design
•       Flexibility for future needs
•       Budget                         Most Interest
                                       • Overall programming
                                       • Site design/floor plan
                                          - -                     ----   - -----

                                                                           C)
                                                                           N
 -J,.'-~'T.0 METH011.
                                                                           a..


~~1~~~~
    ,.                           IMPLEMENTATION
     F'IR:E: •



                                 What's Next?
                 Phase 2 Engagement - Feb/Mar 2026
                 • Share survey results with design team
                 • Facilitate design workshops
                    • Discussion around expressed design priorities
                       and recommendations
                 • Develop design review plan to incorporate key
                    stakeholders
                                                                           ,-
                                                                           N
                                                                           a..




                                                ..,_____    ..-~-- - --,
                                                                     ,/




                                                •'   .. -· ______,




                         Questions?
Erin Castleberry I 916.859.4160 I castleberry.erin@metrofire.ca.gov
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armsl<ong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief


     DATE:         October 9, 2025

     TO:           Board of Directors

     SUBJECT:      Purchase Approval -107' Tractor Drawn Aerial


                                                     TOPIC

     Staff seeks Board approval for the purchase of a Pierce 107' Tractor Drawn Aerial from Golden
     State Fh·e Apparatus, Inc.

                                                  SUMMARY

     Thl.s vehicle will be replacing an Aerial which Is at the end of its service life due to age and
     mileage.

                                                 DISCUSSION

     The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (Metro Fire) intends to fulfill this purchase utilizing
     Sourcewell contract #113021-OKC, ID #234. Sourcewell is a State of Minnesota local
     government unit and service cooperative th 9t facilitates competitive public solicitations and
     contract award proc~sses for the benefit of its 50,000+ participating entitles across the United                     .I   :

     States anq ·canada. Cooperative purchasing provides participating :agencies Increased
     administrative efficiencies and the power of combined purchasing volume that results in overall
     cost saving&. The Purchasing Division has reviewed the contract and determinE;ld it is consistent
     With Metro Fire purchasing policies and procedures.

                                               FISCAL IMPACT

     The total cost of the purchase for the 107' Tractor Drawn Aerial.ls $2,495,114.66. The purchase
     is included in the FY 2025/26 Final Budget from Measure O funds.

                                             RECOMMl:NDATION

     Staff respectfully recommends the Board approve the purchase of a 107' Tractor Drawn Aerial
     from Golden State Fire Apparatus, Inc. utilizin_g Sourcewell contract #113021-OKC; ID #234.


                                                        A~~
                                           C::?(<:.--=~=-r--

     Shea Pursell                                      Tyler Wagaman
     Fleet Manl:iger                                   Deputy Chief, Support Services



                                      Serving $acramento and Placer Counties



                                                                                                                    P22
              GOLDEN
              STATE
              FIRE APPARATUS




 PRODUCT PROPOSAL FOR:
 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                      SALES CONSULTANT
 4425 Dudley Boulevard                                                                             Brad Hansen
 McClellan, CA 95652                                                                      brad@goldenstatefjre.com
                                                                                              Mobile: (916) 869-6072




                973                         Pierce Manufacturing Inc.
                                                                                         ID #234, Member# 39189

Golden State Fire Apparatus, Inc. ("GSFA") is pleased to provide this proposal for the fire apparatus(es)
and equipment identified below (the "Product") to SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
("Customer") for consideration. This proposal (this "Product Proposal") includes the following exhibits
attached hereto: the Standard Terms and Conditions attached as Exhibit A (the "Terms and Conditions");
the Product Specifications attached as Exhibit B (t he "Specifications"); the Product Warranties attached
as Exhibit C (the "Warranties"); and the Dealer Supplied Products and/or Services attached as Exhibit D
(the "Dealer Supplied Products/Services List") (all of the foregoing, collectively, the "Agreement").
Through its signature below or other Acceptance (as defined on page 2), Customer acknowledges having
received and read, and agrees to be bound by, the Agreement. The Agreement shall be effective as of the
latest date appearing the signature blocks below (the "Executed Date").


 ITEM                                        PRODUCT DESCRIPTION                                             UNIT PRICE
  A     BASE UNIT ID #234: One (1) Pierce Manufacturing, Inc. 107' Enforcer Tractor Drawn Aerial                 1,772,702.81

   B    Customization Options, ID #234                                                                            505,441.19

  C     Factory Pre-Construction Trip for six (6) SMFD Representatives (4 Days/3 Nights)                            10,800.00

  D     Factory Final Inspection Trip for six (6) SMFD Representatives (4 Days/3 Nights)                            10,800.00

   E    Delivery/ Dealer Preparation                                                                                 9,000.00

   F    SUBTOTAL                                                                                                 2,308,744.00

  G     7.75% State Sales Tax                                                                                     178,927.66

  H     California Tire Fee                                                                                             14.00

        Sourcewell Consortium Fee                                                                                    2,000.00

        100% Performance Bond                                                                                        5,429.00

   I(




                                              [Terms Page Follows]




7400 Reese Road, Sacramento, CA 95828 I Office 916.330.1638 I Fax 916.330.1649

                                                                                                                                P23
PAYMENT TERMS Customer shall pay the t otal purchase price set forth directly above (the "Grand Total
Purchase Price") t o GSFA no later than the t im e of GSFA's delivery of the applicable Product to Customer's
address listed above (or Customer's pick up of such Product at GSFA's facilities, if approved by GSFA). GSFA
shall have no obligation to deliver, or permit pick up of the Product If the Customer does not have full
payment ready when the Product Is complete and ready to deliver or pick up, as applicable. Customer shall
pay any balance due as a result of Change Orders as described in the Terms and Conditions.

MANUFACTURER- Customer acknowledges that GSFA is not an agent of the Product manufacturer
identified above ("Manufacturer") and is not capable of binding Manufacturer. Within five (5) business days
of the Executed Date, GSFA shall submit an order form to Manufacturer for the Product. GSFA's further
performance under the Agreement is contingent upon Manufacturer's acceptance of such order form at the
price and on the t erms GSFA believed to be available when submitting this Product Proposal to Customer. If
Manufacturer rejects such order as submitted or fails to respond to GSFA within a reasonable amount of
time, GSFA shall notify Customer in writing, and unless GSFA and Customer otherwise agree in writing the
Agreement shall then terminate and have no further force or effect.

PRODUCT COMPLETION The Product shall be ready for final inspection by Customer at the manufacturing
facility within approximately 36 to 38 MONTHS after the Executed Date. The foregoing estimate is provided
as a good faith approximation as of the date of submission of this Product Proposal, and is subject to the
Terms and Conditions.

PREDELIVERY SERVICE - If applicable, after transportation from t he manufacturing facility and prior to final
delivery or pick up, the Product shall receive those additional Products and/or services identified on the
Dealer Supplied Products/Services List. It is estimated that such service will add approximately .!Llil0..1
MONTH(S) to the above Product completion estimate. The foregoing estimate is provided as a good faith
approxlmi:itlon as of the date of submission of this Product Proposal, and is subject t o the Terms and
Conditions.

PROPOSAL EXPIRATION - This Product Proposal supersedes any previous proposal(s) presented t o
Customer by GSFA and Its employees and may be accepted by Customer on or before the Expiration Date
identified above. Unless accepted by the Expiration Date, GSFA reserves the right to withdraw this Product
Proposal or t o alter Its terms (in cluding by providing updated Product pricing) prior to an order being
accepted.

PURCHASE ORDER Any PO shall be made out t o:
Golden State Fire Apparatus, Inc. - 7400 Reese Road-Sacramento, CA 95828.

ACCEPTANCE -ACCEPTANCE OFTHIS PROPOSAL CREATES AN ENFORCEABLE BINDING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN GSFA AND CUSTOMER. "ACCEPTANCE" MEANS THAT THE CUSTOMER DELIVERS TO GSFA: (A) A
SIGNED COPY OF THIS PRODUCT PROPOSAL, OR (B) A SIGNED COPY OF A PURCHASE ORDER
INCORPORATING THE AGREEMENT IN ITS Ef'ITIRETY. ANY ADDITIONAL OR DIFFERENTTERMS, WHETHER
CONTAINED IN CUSTOMER'S FORMS OR OTHERWISE PRESENTED BY CUSTOMER AT ANYTIME, ARE
HEREBY REJECTED AND OF NO EFFECT UNLESS APPROVED IN WRITING SIGNED BY GSFA.

COUNTERPARTS - This Product Proposal may be executed in mult iple counterparts, each of wh ich shall be
deemed an original (including copies sent to a party by electronic transmission) as against the party signing
such counterpart, but which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. A signed copy of this
Product Proposal delivered by facsimile, email or other means of electronic transmission will be deemed to
have the same legal effect as delivery of an original signed copy of this Product Proposal. If this Product ·
Proposal is returned to GSFA with the signature of Customer's authorized represent ative but without an
attestation or co-signers signature, then absent Customer's written notice to the contrary, GSFA shall be
entitled to rely on such single signature as sufficient evidence of the signato ry's authority to execute the
Agreement and bind Customer thereby.

                                           [Signature Page Follows]



7400 Reese Road, Sacramento, CA 95828 I Office 916.330.1638 I Fax 916.330.1649

                                                                                                                P24
INTENDING TO CREATE A BINDING AGREEMENT, Customer and GSFA have each caused this Product
Proposal dated 09/10/2025, GSFA Proposal Number 10910-25B to be executed by their duly authorized
representatives effective as of the Executed Date.



ACCEPTED AND AGREED                                    ACCEPTED AND AGREED
TO BY CUSTOMER                                         TO BYGSFA



Signature of Authorized Customer Representative        Signature of Authorized GSFA Representative




Print Name                                             Print Name




Title                                                  Title




Date                                                • Date




7400 Reese Road, Sacramento, CA 95828 I Office 916.330.1638 I Fax 916.330.1649

                                                                                                     P25
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                      10545 Armstrong Ave.,. Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 i Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief


     DATE:           October 9, 2025

     TO:             Board of Directors

     SUBJECT:        Purchase Approval - Heavy Rescue Unit


                                                    TOPIC

     Staff s~eks Board approval for the purchase of a Pierce Heavy Rescue Unit from Golden State
     Fire Apparatus, Inc.

                                                 SUMMARY

     This vehicle will be replacing a Heavy Rescue Unit which is at the end of its service life due to
     age and mileage.

                                                DISCUSSION

     The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (Metro Fire) intends to fulfill this purchase utilizing
     Sourcewell contract #113021"OKC, ID #271. Sourcewell is a State of Minnesota local
     government unit and $ervice cooperative that facilitates competitive public solicltatlons and
     contract award processes for the benefit of Its 50,000+ participating entities across the United
     States and Canada. Cooperative purchasing provides participating agencies Increased
     administrative efficiencies and the power of combined purchasing volume that res_  u)ts irt overall
     cost savings, The Purch~s,ng Division has reviewed the contract and determined It Is consistent
     with Metro Fire purchasing policies and procedures.

                                              FISCAL IMPACT

     The total cost of the purchase for the Heavy Rescue Unit is $1 ,777.,505,55. The purchase is
     included in the FY 2025/26 Final Budget from Measure O funds.

                                            RECOMMENDATION

     Staff respectfully recommends the Board approve the purchase of a Heavy Rescue Unit from
     Golden State Fire Apparatus, Inc. utilizing Sourcewell contract #113021MOKC, ID #271.

     Submitted by:


        S~~~~
     Shea Purseli
     Fleet Manager                                    Deputy Chief, Support Services



                                    Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties



                                                                                                                   P26
             GOLDEN
             STATE
             FIRE APPARATUS




 PRODUCT PROPOSAL FOR:
 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                SALES CONSULTANT
 4425 Dudley Boulevard                                                                     Brad Hansen
 McClellan, CA 95652                                                                brad@goldenstatefire.com
                                                                                       Mobile: (916) 869-6072




               981                       Pierce Manufacturing Inc.
                                                                                   ID #271, Member# 39189

Golden State Fire Apparatus, Inc. ("GSFA") Is pleased to provide this proposal for the tire apparatus(es)
and equipment Identified below (the "Product") to SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
("Customer") for consideration. This proposal (this "Product Proposal") includes the following exhibits
attached hereto: the Standard Terms and Conditions attached as Exhibit A (the "Terms and Conditions");
the Product Specifications attached as Exhibit B (the "Specifications"); the Product Warranties attached
as Exhibit C (the "Warranties"); and the Dealer Supplied Products and/or Services attached as Exhibit D
(the "Dealer Supplied Products/Services List") (all of the foregoing, collectively, the "Agreement").
Through its signature below or other Acceptance (as defined on page 2), Customer acknowledges having
received and read, and agr(;les to be bound by, the Agreement. The Agreement shall be effective as of the
latest date appearing the signature blocks below (the "Executed Date").


 ITEM                                     PRODUCT DESCRIPTION                                         UNIT PRICE
  A     BASE UNIT ID #271: One (1) Pierce Manufacturing, Inc. Enforcer Heavy Duty Rescue                  906,880.27

   B    Customization Options, ID #271                                                                    706,339.73

  C     Factory Pre-Construction Trip for six (6) SMFD Representatives (4 Days/3 Nights)
  D     Factory Final Inspection Trip for six (6) SMFD Representatives (4 Days/3 Nights)                   10,800.00

   E    Delivery/ Dealer Preparation                                                                         9,000.00

   F    SUBTOTAL                                                                                         1,643,820.00

  G     7.75% State Sales Tax                                                                             127,396.05

  H     California Tire Fee                                                                                     10.50

        Sourcewell Consortium Fee                                                                            2,000.00

        100% Performance Bond                                                                                4,279.00

   I(




                                            [Terms Page Follows]




7400 Reese Road, Sacramento, CA 95828 I Office 916.330.1638 I Fax 916.330.1649

                                                                                                                        P27
PAYMENT TERMS - Customer shall pay the total purchase price set forth directly above (the "Grand Total
Purchase Price") to GSFA no later than the time of GSFA's delivery of the applicable Product to Customer's
address listed above (or Customer's pick up of such Product at GSFA's facilities, if approved by GSFA). GSFA
shall have no obligation to deliver, or permit pick up of the Product if the Customer does not have full
payment ready when the Product Is complete and ready to deliver or pick up, as applicable. Customer shall
pay any balance due as a result of Change Orders as described in the Terms and Conditions.

MANUFACTURER- Customer acknowledges that GSFA is not an agent of the Product manufacturer
identified above ("Manufacturer") and is not capable of binding Manufacturer. Within five (5) business days
of the Executed Date, GSFA shall submit an order form to Manufacturer for the Product. GSFA's further
performance under the Agreement is contingent upon Manufacturer's acceptance of such order form at the
price and on the terms GSFA believed to be available when submitting this Product Proposal to Customer. If
Manufacturer rejects such order as submitted or fails to respond to GSFA within a reasonable amount of
time, GSFA shall notify Customer in writing, and unless GSFA and Customer otherwise agree in writing the
Agreement shall then terminate and have no fu rther force or effect.

PRODUCT COMPLETION- The Product shall be ready for final inspection by Customer at the manufacturing
facility within approximately 45 to 48 MONTHS after the Executed Date. The foregoing estimate is provided
as a good faith approximation as of the date of submission of this Product Proposal, and is subject to the
Terms and Conditions.

PREDEUVEBY SERVICE- If applicable, after transportation from the manufacturing facility and prior to final
delivery or pick up, the Product shall receive those additional Products and/or services identified on the
Dealer Supplied Products/Services List. It is estimated that such service will add approximately .Q&.1Qj_
MONTH(S) to the above Product completion estimate. The foregoing estimate is provided as a good faith
approximation as 'of the date of submission of this Product Proposal, and Is subject to the Terms and
Conditions.

PROPOSAL EXPIRATION - This Product Proposal supersedes any previous proposal(s) presented to
Customer by GSFA and its employees and may be accepted by Customer on or before the Expiration Date
Identified above. Unless accepted by the Expiration Date, GSFA reserves the right to withdraw this Product
Proposal or to alter Its terms (Including by providing updated Product pricing) prior to an order being
accepted.

PURCHASE ORDER-Any PO shall be made out to:
Golden State Fire Apparatus, Inc. - 7400 Reese Road - Sacramento, CA 95828.

ACCEPTANCE-ACCEPTANCE OF THIS PROPOSAL CREATES AN ENFORCEABLE BINDING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN GSFA AND CUSTOMER. "ACCEPTANCE" MEANS THATTHE CUSTOMER DELIVERS TO GSFA: (A) A
SIGNED COPY OF THIS PRODUCT PROPOSAL, OR (B) A SIGNED COPY OF A PURCHASE ORDER
INCORPORATING THE AGREEMENT IN ITS ENTIRETY. ANY ADDITIONAL OR DIFFERENTTERMS, WHETHER
CONTAINED IN CUSTOMER'S FORMS OR OTHERWISE PRESENTED BY CUSTOMER AT ANYTIME, ARE
HEREBY REJECTED AND OF NO EFFECT UNLESS APPROVED IN WRITING $1GNED BY GSFA.

COUNTERPARTS - This Product Proposal may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall be
deemed an original (including copies sent to a party by electronic transmission) as against the party signing
such counterpart, but which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. A signed copy of this
Product Proposal delivered by facsimile, email or other means of electronic transmission will be deemed·to
have the same legal effect as delivery of an original signed copy of this Product Proposal. If this Product
Proposal Is returned to GSFA with the signature of Customer's authorized represent ative but without an
attestation or co-signers signature, then absent Customer's written notice to the contrary, GSFA shall be
entitled to rely on such single signature as sufficient evidence of the signatory's authority to execute the
Agreement and bind Customer thereby.

                                           [Signature Page Follows]



7400 Reese Road, Sacramento, CA 95828 I Office 916.330.1638 I Fax 916.330.1649


                                                                                                                P28
INTENDING TO CREATE A BINDING AGREEMENT, Customer and GSFA have each caused this Product
Proposal dated 09/10/2025, GSFA Proposal Number 10910-25BR to be executed by their duly authorized
representatives effective as of the Executed Date.



ACCEPTED AND AGREED                                    ACCEPTED AND AGREED
TO BY CUSTOMER                                         TO BYGSFA



Signature of Authorized Customer Representative        Signature of Authorized GSFA Representative




Print Name                                             Print Name




Title                                                  Title




Date                                                   Date




7400 Reese Road, Sacramento, CA 95828 I Office 916.330.1638 I Fax 916.330.1649

                                                                                                     P29
                      Sacra~ento Metropolitan Fire District
   1         '
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~m~
ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief

       DATE:         October 9, 2025

       TO:            Board of Directors

       SUBJECT:       FY2024 State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSGP) Award

                                               TOPIC
       Acceptance of a FY2024 State Homeland Security Grant Program Award.

                                              BACKGROUND
       On March 12, 2025, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (District) submitted applications for
       funding totaling $381,790 to the Sacramento County Office of Emergency Services (SacOES)
       through the FY2024 State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSGP). $143,500 was requested
       for hazardous materials (HazMat) chemical response equipment to maintain and enhance
       hazardous materials response capabilities; $89,280 was requested for tactical EMS (TEMS)
       ballistic protective equipment to support all-hazard response capabilities of the TEMS team;
       $77,850 was requested for night vision enhancement goggles.to increase response capabilities
       for the water rescue and technical/heavy rescue teams; and $71, 160 was requested for water
       rescue PPE and supplies to maintain essential water rescue and flood response capabilities.

                                                DISCUSSION
       On September 9, 2025, the District received an award notification from SacOES in the amount of
       $143,500 to fully fund the HazMat chemical weapons.response equipment projects. The District's
       other requested projects were not selected for funding. The period of performance for the FY24
       SHSGP grant ends December 31, 2026.

                                             FISCAL IMPACT
       Grant funding in the amount of $143,500 will be added to the FY 2025/26 Final Budget through
       the attached budget amendment. There is no match requirement.

                                             RECOMMENDATION
       Staff recommends adoption of the attached resolution accepting the FY24 SHSGP grant and
       requests that the Board authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to execute all required documents
       for the administration of the grant award. Staff further recommends the adoption of the attached
       resolution to amend the FY 2025/26 Final Budget for Grants Fund 212G.

                                                            Approved by:
                                                             (                        .
       Erin Castleberry, Ad • is ative Analyst              Je                     elopment Officer
       Planning and Development                             Pia                eve opment

       ATTACHMENT 1:         Resolution Accepting a FY2024 State Homeland Security Grant from the
                             County of Sacramento

       ATTACHMENT 2:         Resolution Adopting a Budget Amendment to the Final Budget for Grants
                             Fund 212G for the Fiscal Year 2025/26


                                      Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                                P30
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                     RESOLUTION NO. 2025-XXX

 A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING A FY2024 STATE HOMELAND SECURITY GRANT FROM
                     THE COUNTY OF SACRAMENTO

         WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political subdivision of
  the State of California and is duly organized and existing pursuant to the State constitution and laws;
  and
            WHEREAS, on March 12, 2025, the District submitted FY2024 State Homeland Security
   Grant Program (SHSGP) applications to the County of Sacramento's Office of Emergency Services
   (SacOES) totaling $381,790 for projects including night vision enhancement goggles, tactical EMS
   ballistic protective equipment, water rescue PPE and supplies, and hazardous materials (HazMat)
   chemical weapons response equipment; and
           WHEREAS, on September 9, 2025, the District received an award notification from SacOES
   in the amount of $143,500 to fully fund the HazMat chemical weapons response equipment projects.

           THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, a public
   entity established under the laws of the State of California, does hereby:

      1. Accept the grant award from the County of Sacramento in the amount of $143,500 through
         the FY2024 State Homeland Security Grant Program.
      2. Authorize the Fire Chief or his designee as its Authorized Agent(s) to enter into and execute
         the agreement with the County of Sacramento and further, authorizes the Fire Chief or his
         designee to execute the required and necessary documents to administer the funds awarded.

         PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 9th day of October, 2025. I, MARNI
   RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT HEREBY
   CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting of the
   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

   AYES:
   NOES:
   ABSENT:
   ABSTAIN:

                                         SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                         By:-- - - - - - -- - - --                      -   -
                                           President, Board of Directors

   ATTEST:


   Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
   Clerk of the Board


                                 Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                            P31
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
  l        I      10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700


~•;I~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                   RESOLUTION NO. 2025-XXX
       A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                     ADOPTING A BUDGET AMENDMENT
               TO THE FINAL BUDGET FOR GRANTS FUND 212G
                       FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2025/26
          WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political subdivision
  of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant to the State
  constitution and laws; and
        WHEREAS, the District has accepted a FY2024 State Homeland Security Grant Award in
  the amount of $143,500; and

         WHEREAS, on September 11, 2025 the District adopted the Final Budget for Grants Fund
   212G for FY2025/26, which did not include this funding.
           THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, in accordance with Section 13890 of the Health and
   Safety Code, the Final Budget for the Grants Fund 212G for the FY2025/26 will be and is hereby
   further amended in accordance with the following:
                                                                                         FY2024/25
                      FUND           COST                                                INCREASE
   ACCOUNT      FUND CENTER         CENTER           ACCOUNT CATEGORY                    (DECREASE)
   43430300     212G  2126000       2126000000       EQUIPMENT                              $ 143,500
   95953100     212G  2126000       2126000000       AID/OTHER LOCAL GOVT                   $ 143,500

          BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the means of financing the expenditure program will
   be by monies derived from all revenue sources and fund balance available.
         PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 9111 day of October, 2025. I, MARNI
   RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT HEREBY
   CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting of the
   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

   AYES:
   NOES:
   ABSENT:
   ABSTAIN:

                                        SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT

                                         By: - - - - - - - -- - -
                                             President, Board of Directors

   ATTEST:


   Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
   Clerk of the Board


                               Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                        P32
                          Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I
                          10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

lta,:J~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief
       DATE:             October 9, 2025

       TO:               Board of Directors
       SUBJECT:          Pre-Qualified Shortlist - Architecture and Engineering Services

                                                TOPIC
       Request to adopt a resolution establishing a Pre-Qualified Shortlist for ·architecture and
       engineering services.
                                                  BACKGROUND
       The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's FY 2025/26 Capital Improvement Program Plan has
       identified needs for several projects over the next five years related to the planning and design
       of new fire stations and related facilities, renovation of existing facilities, and other major facility
       improvements and enhancements. With additional funding now available through the Measure
       O General Obligation Bond, the District is ideally poised to deliver these projects which are
       essential to meeting the existing and future needs of the District and its growing communities.

                                                DISCUSSION
       On August 11, 2025, the District issued Request for Qualifications (RFQ) 25-05 for the purpose
       of establishing a Pre-Qualified Shortlist of architecture and engineering firms who would be
       eligible to compete on anticipated contracts over the next five years. The District received ten
       submittals in response to the RFQ. Two responses did not meet the minimum scoring
       requirements and were disqualified. The remaining eight submittals met the minimum scoring
       re·quirements and were subsequently evaluated and scored based on capacity and
       qualifications of the firm and key personnel, demonstrated relevant experience, value
       proposition, and conformance to the submittal requirements.
       Based on the scoring and evaluation process outlined in the RFQ, the following firms were
       identified as the five highest-scoring firms:
                   Brown Reynolds Watford Architects            Lionakis
                   COAR Design Group                            PBK Architects, Inc.
                   DLR Group inc.
                                                FISCAL IMPACT
       There is no fiscal impact for establishing the Pre-Qualified Shortlist.
                                             RECOMMENDATION
       Staff recommends that the Board adopt a resolution to establish a Pre-Qualified Shortlist for a
       five-year term comprised of the five highest-scoring firms identified above.
                                                               Approved by:,~-                            .
                                                                ( :- .01r:· .,   \-✓
                                                                                   ~   -   -   - - - -·



                                                               Jeff/       ,\, hief De elopment Officer
                                                                    \;
       ATTACHMENT: Resolution Establishing a Pre-Qualified Shortlist for Architecture and
                   Engineering Services



                                         Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                                    P33
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief                    RESOLUTION NO. 2025-XXX

    A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
    ESTABLISHING A PRE-QUALIFIED SHORTLIST FOR ARCHITECTURE AND
                        ENGINEERING SERVICES
          WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political subdivision
  of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant to the State
  constitution and laws; and
          WHEREAS, the District's FY 2025/26 Capital Improvement Program Plan has identified
   several projects anticipated for implementation over the next five years related to the planning
   and design of new fire stations and related facilities, renovation of existing facilities, and other
   major facility improvements and enhancements; and
           WHEREAS, the District issued Request for Qualifications ("RFQ") 25-05 for the purpose
   of pre-qualifying architecture and engineering firms who will be eligible to compete for forthcoming
   contracts related to the design-bid-build delivery of such projects; and
           WHEREAS, following the evaluation of responsive submittals, the District desires to
   establish a Pre-Qualified Shortlist that includes the five highest-scoring firms.
            NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the Sacramento
   Metropolitan Fire District does hereby establish a Pre-Qualified Shortlist for a term of five years
   that is comprised of the following firms:
                •   Brown Reynolds Watford Architects
                •   COAR Design Group
                •   DLR Group inc.
                •   Lionakis
                •   PBK Architects, Inc.
         PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 9nd day of October, 2025. I, MARNI
   RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT HEREBY
   CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting of the
   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

   AYES:
   NOES:
   ABSENT:
   ABSTAIN:
                                           SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                           By:-- - - - - - -- -- - - -
                                            President, Board of Directors

   ATTEST:


   Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
   Clerk of the Board
                                 Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                           P34
