                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (91 6) 859-3702

~.~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                                 ADOPTED
                   ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                               BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                       SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                              Thursday, September 12, 2024
                               Held at the following locations:
                           10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                      Mather, California
                                               &
                                     Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:01 pm by Vice President Wood. Board members
  present: Clark, Costa, Goold, Jones, Rice, Saylors, Sheetz, Wood and Webber. Board
  members absent: None. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  One (1) public comment was received .

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Clark seconded by Jones and carried unanimously by members present to
  adopt the consent calendar as follows :

  1.     Action Summary Minutes
         Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
         of August 8, 2024.
         Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.     Purchase Approval - FUR K65 Thermal lmagers
         Recommendation : Approve the purchase of FLIR K65 thermal imaging cameras
         and accessories from W.S. Darley & Co. using Sourcewell contract #020124-WSD.
         Action: Approved purchase.

  3.     Adopt Resolution - Reimbursement for Tax Exempt Debt
         Recommendation: Adopt Resolution to reimburse the District for funds that have
         been or may be expended prior to issuing tax-exempt debt.
         Action: Adopted Resolution 2024-106.
4.    Purchase Approval - Four (4) North Star Ambulances
      Recommendation: Approve the purchase of four North Star Ambulances from Braun
      Northwest, Inc. utilizing HGACBuy Contract Number AM 10-23.
      Action: Approved purchase.

5.    Adopt Resolution - Cooperative Purchase Agreement for Fuels
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the purchase of automotive fuels
      from Hunt & Sons LLC using the SACOG cooperative purchasing agreement and to
      allow the Fire Chief or his designee to execute the Participating Agency Sub
      Agreement documents required for utilizing the referenced SACOG agreement.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2024-107.

6.    Adopt Resolution - Fiscal Year 2024/25 Gann Appropriations Limit
      Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution approving the Gann Appropriations Limit in
      Fiscal Year 2024/25 in the amount of $452,663,227.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2024-108.

7.    Purchase Approval - Personal Protective Equipment
      Recommendation: Approve the purchase of structural firefighting turnouts from MES
      using Sourcewell contract #010424-MES and authorize the continued utilization of
      this contract for future purchases until the contract expires or is terminated.
      Action: Approved purchase.

8.    Adopt Resolution - McClellan Business Park, LLC
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution delegating authority to the Fire Chief or his
      designee to execute and administer an agreement with McClellan Business Park,
      LLC for providing aircraft rescue and firefighting services at McClellan Airport.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2024-109.

9.    Adopt Resolution - FY 2023 State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSGP)
      Award
      Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution accepting the FY 2023 SHSGP Grant and
      authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to execute all required documents for the
      administration of the grant award.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2024-110.

10.   Adopt Resolution - Economic Development Initiative - Community Project
      Funding Award
      Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution accepting the FY 2024 Economic
      Development Initiative - Community Project Funding Grant from the U.S.
      Department of Housing and Urban Development and authorize the Fire Chief or his
      designee to execute all required documents for administration of the grant award.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2024-111 .

11.   Adopt Resolution - Opioid Remediation Activities Agreement - County of
      Sacramento
      Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution authorizing the Fire Chief or his designee
      to execute and administer and agreement with the County of Sacramento for opioid
      remediation activities.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2024-112.


9.12.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                               Page 2 of 8
12.      Adopt Resolution - Amendment to the FY 2024/25 - 2028/29 Capital Improvement
         Program (CIP) Plan
         Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution amending the Capital Improvement Program
         Plan for FY 2024/2025 - 2028/2029.
         Action: Adopted Resolution 2024-113.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.       Wellness, Health & Safety Division
         (Battalion Chief Anthony Peck)
         Recommendation: Receive presentation.
         Action: Presentation received.

2.       City of San Diego Workers Compensation Presentation
         (Battalion Chief Picone & Work Comp Program Manager Joseph Sousa)
         Recommendation: Receive presentation
         Action: Presentation received.

ACTION ITEMS

1.       Adopt Resolutions - 2024/25 Final Budget
         (CFO Dave O'Toole)
         A. Resolution - 2024/25 Final Budget for the General Operating Fund 212A
         B. Resolution - 2024/25 Final Budget for the Capital Facilities Fund 212D
         C. Resolution - 2024/25 Final Budget for the Grants Fund 212G
         D. Resolution - 2024/25 Final Budget for the Development Impact Fees Fund 2121
         E. Resolution - 2024/25 Final Budget for the Leased Properties Fund 212L
         F. Resolution - 2024/25 Final Budget for the IGT Fund 212M
         G. Resolution - 2024/25 Final Budget for the Special Projects Fund 212S
         Recommendation: Receive presentation and adopt the Fiscal Year 2024/25 Budget
         Resolutions.

         Action:
      A. Moved by Director Sheetz, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by members present
         to adopt Resolution 2024-114 approving the 2024/25 Final Budget for the General Operating
         Fund 212A.
      B. Moved by Director Sheetz, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by members
         present to adopt Resolution 2024-115 approving the 2024/25 Final Budget for Capital
         Facilities Fund 212D
      C. Moved by Director Sheetz, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by members present
         to adopt Resolution 2024-116 approving the 2024/25 Final Budget for the Grants Fund
         212G.
      D. Moved by Director Sheetz, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by members present
         to adopt Resolution 2024-117 approving the 2024/25 Final Budget for the Development
         Impact Fees Fund 2121.
      E. Moved by Director Sheetz, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by members present
         to adopt Resolution 2024-118 approving the 2024/25 Final Budget for the Leased Properties
         Fund 212L.
      F. Moved by Director Sheetz, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by members present
         to adopt Resolution 2024-119 approving the 2024/25 Final Budget for the IGT Fund 212M.
      G. Moved by Director Sheetz, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by members present
         to adopt Resolution 2024-120 approving the 2024/25 Final Budget for the Special Projects
         Fund 212S.
9.12.2024 Board Meeting Acticm Summary Minutes                                   Page 3 of 8
2.        Industrial Disability Retirement - Engineer James Lee
          Recommendation:          After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a
          Resolution finding Engineer James Lee has suffered job related injuries and is eligible
          for an Industrial Disability Retirement.

REPORTS

1.       PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Goold)

         No Report

2.       FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -        (Chief House)

Good evening, President Goold, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public.

Consent Item 1O: Economic Development Initiative - Community Project Funding Award:
  • Tonight, the Board approved the Community Project Funding Award. The funding will
     allow Metro Fire to move forward with the EVOC project at Zinfandel.
  • Thank you to the many project supporters who attended the site tour and helped us
     secure the funding:
          o Congressman Ami Bera
          o Directors Jones and Clark
          o Representatives from Rancho Cordova Police Dept and Sacramento County
            Sheriff's Office
          o Training, Planning & Development, Community Relations, Rescue 21 and many
            Chief Officers.

Reassignments and Assignments:
  • Effective September 4, Battalion Chief Kim Fong will temporarily serve as the C-Shift
      commander in an out-of-class upgrade capacity.

     •    Congratulations to the following members who have been selected as Drill Instructors
          for the 24-2 MMP Academy, which commences on September 16:
              o FF's Esther Blake, Matt LeFevre, Munro Meyers, and Byron Scoggan

     •    Congratulations to Captain Nicholas Covington for being selected to fill the Tactical
          Flight Officer (TFO) position, effective September 16.

     •    Captain Bryce Mitchell has been reassigned from the Tactical Flight Officer (TFO)
          position to Suppression , effective September 2, 2024. Thank you to Captain Mitchell
          for his dedication and commitment while working in Air Operations.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

BC Barthel was introduced and spoke on his new role as Special Ops BC.

Shift Commander Spotlight: AC Greene came to the podium to honor FF Weitzel on
becoming a Paramedic. Paramedic Weitzel spoke regarding his background and his time at
Metro Fire. Chief House pinned his badge. Giant accolades to the crew at Station 61 .



9.12.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 4 of 8
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Johnson)

COMMUNITY RELATIONS DIVISION
   •   Media coverage
         o On Friday, August 16, Metro Fire posted a virtual fire station tour of Station 103
             for Firehouse Friday. Members of RC Willey noticed in that post that the
             recliners in the station were old and worn out. They contacted us and offered to
             donate new recliners for that station. Recliners were delivered, and follow-up
             media was done on Friday, September 6.

   •   September 11 remembrance events
         o 911 Stair climb - several crews participated along with off-duty Metro members
            and retirees
         o E27 attended a remembrance sponsored by the Sylvan Cemetery
          o E66 & T65 attended a Rancho Cordova City Hall opening reception called
            Remembering Our Fallen Tribute. The tribute is a traveling photographic war
            memorial that honors our fallen military from the global war on terror. Cordova
            Community Council hosted this event.

   •   The Station 59 open house will occur on Saturday, September 21 , from 10-noon.

   •   Next week, in honor of National Opioid Awareness Day (September 21), an
       informative and impactful video about fentanyl and the importance of overdose
       prevention will be distributed to the school districts. This video is specifically designed
       to raise awareness among middle and high school students and encourage them to
       seek out local resources for community-based prevention. This video was created
       through a collaborative effort between Community Relations and EMS, utilizing funds
       from the County.

   •   On October 1, the cancer engine will rotate through all 5 battalions. More to come.

RECRUITMENT & OUTREACH
   •   On Saturday, September 14, 2024, Tim White will be at an event hosted by Ami Bera
       at The Aerospace Museum.

   •   On Monday, September 16, 2024, Tim White will speak to fire tech students at Sierra
       College.

   •   This is Year 3 of our CTE partnership with SJUSD and our Fire Explorers through the
       Fire Tech Pathway at Del Campo. Some of those students are becoming eligible for
       positions, and I continue to hear from those who recently applied for EMT and Reserve
       FF positions.

   •   Tim recently met with the Superintendent of Twin Rivers about a fire tech/EMR
       pathway partnership. Progress has been slow, but it continues to move forward. We
       hope to operationalize a program at Rio Linda HS next school year.

   •   Folsom Cordova School District will visit Del Campo, and we are exploring a pathway
       program for Cordova High School.




9.12.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 5 of 8
SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Bailey)

No Report

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
     Captain Scollard thanked Directors Clark and Rice for attending the 9/11 Memorial Stair
     Climb. There was a great turnout of Metro Fire members.

     Thank you to the City of San Diego and Institutes of Health for supporting our District and
     their willingness to work with us to make our District better.

     Local 522 would like to acknowledge the personnel currently deployed on strike teams.
     It's been a very busy fire season.

     Thank you to the volunteers working on the Measure O campaign.

4.      COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
        All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
        10545 Annstrong A venue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.


        A.      Executive Committee - (President Goold)

                 No Report

        B.      Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Bailey)
                 The SRFECC JPA Board of Directors and staff thank Assistant Chief Chris
                 Greene for his work and commitment to the Communications Center.

                 •       The SRFECC JPA Board approved two action items on the agenda.

                 •        Labor negotiations continue with Local 522 and the SRFECC JPA.

                 •        Our next meeting is scheduled for September 24, at 0900, at Metro HQ.

        C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
                 No Report

        D.       Policy Committee - (Director Saylors)

                 No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Webber thanked Candace Sarlis and Melisa Maddux for their expertise and work on
the Ad Hoc Committee.

Director Costa thanked Directors Saylors and Webber for all their work on the Ad Hoc
Committee and the information you've been brining to the Board.

Director Jones attended the Rancho Cordova Remembering Our Fallen event on September
11 th. Many people came up to me and commented on how much they appreciated the fire
truck and flag display that Metro Fire provided. Also, Director Costa and I attended the
9.12.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                         Page 6 of 8
Rancho Cordova Area Chamber's 2024 Elected Officials Reception on September 4th and
made a lot of great contacts.

Director Rice thanked Chief Rudnicki from the EMS division for providing me with the APOT
statistics. I was contacted by National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) regarding a training
opportunity to discuss making a difference in the homeless community and would like to
broker a meeting with the approval of Chief House. Chief House agreed. Also, I attended
the 9/11 Memorial Stair Climb yesterday, it was very emotional and it meant a lot to be there.

Director Wood thanked Jeff Frye and DC Mitchell for their quick responses to some questions
I had while I was attending a community association meeting.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to Closed Session at 7:43 p.m. on the following matters:

1.     PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION § 54956.9 (A) -
       ONE (1) MATTER OF INDUSTRIAL DISABILITY RETIREMENT:
       1.    James Lee and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
             Claim# 4A231 0B4L5K00001 - Industrial Disability Retirement
             Michael Johnson, Interim Deputy Chief Administration

2.     CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL-ANTICIPATED LITIGATION -
       Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
       Section 54956.9 (b): One Case

       1.     Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910 Autumn
              Gilmore. v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              General Counsel John Lavra & Board Clerk Marni Rittburg

       Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Director Jones, and carried unanimously by
       members present to reject claim .

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened to open session at 8:02 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
the Board met in closed session on two matters: 1. Industrial Disability Retirement of James
Lee, no reportable action was taken in closed session and will be voted on next in open
session. 2. 910 Claim against public entity, the Board voted unanimously to reject the claim
and forward to its liability carrier for further handling.

ACTION ITEM CONTINUED TO AFTER CLOSED SESSION:

Industrial Disability Retirement - Engineer James Lee
Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session , consider adopting a Resolution find ing
Engineer James Lee has suffered job related injuries and is eligible for an Industrial Disability
Retirement.

Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by
members present to adopt Resolution 2024-121 finding James Lee has suffered job related
injuries incapacitating him for the performance of duties.

9.12.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 7 of 8
To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2024-09-12-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT




9.12.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                          Page 8 of 8
