Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, July 12, 2022

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

Acting President Keefer called the meeting to order at 6:35 p.m. Other Board members
present: Bina Lefkovitz (via Zoom), Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Harold Fong, Heather
Davis, Joanne Ahola (via Zoom), and Alfred Brown.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendent Nick Schweizer; Assistant Superintendents Jacqueline White and Brent
Malicote; Executive Director Jerry Jones, and Directors Shanine Coats and Guadalupe
Delgado.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Davis lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Organization of the Board of Education for 2022-2023

A. Election of President

Trustee Brown nominated Trustee Keefer to serve as Board President for the 2022-
2023 term, second by Trustee Fong. There were no other nominations.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola

B. Election of Vice President

Trustee Brown nominated Heather Davis to serve as Board Vice President for the 2022-
2023 term, second by Trustee Ahola. There were no other nominations.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola

3. No Approval of Minutes

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to approve the adoption of the agenda as presented by Trustee Davis,
second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

There was one public comment from Penny Pearson regarding the SCOE return to work
plan.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no requests from employee organizations.

7. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

NEW BOARD MEMBER
Superintendent Gordon welcomed newly elected Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano,
representing Area 2. She took the oath of office on July 6 with her friends, family, and
other supporters present for the ceremony here at SCOE. He thanked Trustee Brown
for attending the event. Superintendent Gordon stated that Mariana serves as chief of
staff for Senator Monique Limón. She holds a Bachelor of Arts from California State
University, Sacramento and a Master of Science from McGeorge School of Law. She
has more than 13 years of education policy experience and is an active community
leader. Superintendent Gordon expressed appreciation for having her serve on the
Sacramento Board of Education alongside our other esteemed members.
NEW BOARD OFFICERS
Superintendent Gordon congratulated Trustee Keefer for being selected to serve as our
new Board President. He also congratulated Trustee Davis for being selected to serve
as Vice President for 2022-2023. On behalf of himself and our entire SCOE team,
Superintendent Gordon thanked Karina Talamantes for serving as Board President over
the past year. He commented that she will be missed and wished her well in her future
endeavors knowing that she will bring a strong policy sense, kindness, and positivity
everywhere she goes. He also thanked Trustee Paul Keefer for serving as Vice
President.

DEI
The Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Team at SCOE is excited to announce the launch of
Growth Track, our new DEI professional learning program for SCOE employees. Each
quarter, there will be opportunities to learn and connect with colleagues through books,
audios, films, and other media that focus on diverse stories and experiences.

EXPANDED LEARNING
In partnership with SCOE Expanded Learning and Square Root Academy, students at
Samuel Jackman Middle School in the Elk Grove Unified School District visited the
Curiosity Cube on July 6th. The Curiosity Cube is a retrofitted shipping container that
has been transformed into a mobile science lab and was on tour last week in
Sacramento. Students conducted hands-on experiments using the latest technology.
Learning experiences like this inspire curiosity and students’ interest in STEM. SCOE is
fortunate to work with so many incredible nonprofit partners that help us serve our
students and families, such as the Square Root Academy, which helps young learners
open their eyes to future career possibilities in science and related fields. Kudos to
SCOE’s Mark Drewes for being a leader in Expanded Learning!

COURT AND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS & SPECIAL EDUCATION
Our SCOE Court and Community Schools and Special Education programs will be
launching the new school year together with an incredible 3-day professional learning
event that will kick off with a community building BBQ at the end of this month. The
training sessions are designed for all of our school-based staff. Both SCOE staff and
guest speakers will provide a meaningful, collaborative experience. The staff will have
the opportunity to explore topics such as diversity, equity, and inclusion, social
emotional learning, how to support students with autism, arts integration, digital
learning, and many more. It will be a great opportunity to connect and learn together.

SACRAMENTO COUNTY TEACHERS OF THE YEAR
SCOE is holding interviews this month to select the 2023 Sacramento County Teachers
of the Year. The winners will be announced and honored on August 26, 2022 at the
Teacher of the Year Banquet being held at the Hilton Sacramento Arden West. Best of
luck in the competition to SCOE’s own 2023 Teacher of the Year, Kevin Jordan,
Nursery and Landscape Instructor for the Sustainable Environments Learning Academy
at Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School.
SPECIAL EDUCATION
The last week of ESY summer school was last week. COVID cases did pick up across
programs, but we were able to keep all programs open because COVID seemed to
proportionally impact staff and students. Staffing for ESY was a challenge and SCOE
had to contract out for services for a variety of positions in order to safely and
appropriately run programs. Staff is excited for the summer Professional Development
session that is taking place in collaboration with Court and Community Schools at the
end of the month, which Superintendent Gordon mentioned earlier in his report. SCOE
is actively recruiting for all of our vacant positions for the 2022-2023 school year.

8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola

By approval of the consent agenda, the following items were approved:

B. Accept Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White

Ms. White announced that the following students will be awarded a diploma: 1
candidate from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School and 1 Candidate from Elinor
Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension.

9. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola

10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon
Motion to approve grant applications/service contracts and accept funding if awarded;
and approval of contracts, positions, and other expenditures associated with the grants
as outlined in the proposed budget by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola

A. Placer County Re-Entry Program (PREP) Grant - Jacqueline White

B. Yolo County Day Reporting Centers Grant - Jacqueline White

C. Placer County Re-Entry Program (PREP)/Nevada County Probation Grant -
Jacqueline White

11. New Business - Other

A. Motion to adopt Early Head Start Resolution No. 22-13 by Trustee Fong, second by
Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola

B. Board Report - 2022-2023 State Budget Act Report

Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer presented this item.

C. Board Report - SCOE Resiliency Scholarship Recognition

Director Shanine Coats presented this item. Ms. Coats also introduced Director
Guadalupe Delgado to speak about the mentorship component of the scholarship
program and answer questions.

12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Brown welcomed Trustee Corona Sabeniano. He mentioned that he is
celebrating his 50-year reunion from law school this summer.

Trustee Lefkovitz welcomed Trustee Corona Sabeniano. Trustee Lefkovitz also asked if
Zoom would be provided at future meetings for the purpose of Public Comments. To
which Superintendent Gordon stated that SCOE is planning to equip the Board Room to
facilitate Board meetings via Zoom in the future.

Trustee Davis welcomed Trustee Corona Sabeniano. She encouraged everyone to stay
safe and healthy.

Trustee Ahola congratulated new Trustee Corona Sabeniano and welcomed her to the
Board. She also congratulated Trustees Keefer and Davis for being elected as
President and Vice President.

Trustee Fong extended congratulations to Paul, Bina, and Mariana for their successful
election. He requested that the next two Board meetings be available via Zoom. He also
requested a resolution regarding the Art & Music Initiative (on the November ballot) or a
letter of support. He also asked that the public commenter's concerns regarding return
to office be considered. To which Superintendent Gordon explained SCOE's pilot
program and the process for receiving staff input regarding the return to office plan
because SCOE wants the best possible environment for getting our work done, while
also providing staff the opportunity to be collaborative, something that is enhanced
when staff work together.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano thanked everyone for the warm welcome, the onboarding,
and being available to answer her questions. She also expressed appreciation to past
Board Member Karina Talamantes for her support.

B. Board President

President Keefer thanked the Board for their support and acknowledged Trustee Fong's
request for Zoom at future meetings.

C. Committees

There were no committee reports.

13. Items for Distribution

A. July/August Events and Site Visits

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. August 9, 2022

B. September 6, 2022

15. Adjournment

A. Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Davis.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola

Meeting adjourned at 7:58 p.m.

Respectfully Submitted,


Date approved:
