                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
     Todd Harms
      Fire Chief
                                           BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING

                                         Thursday, September 8, 2022 – 6:00 PM
                                               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Cinthia Saylors                                     10545 Armstrong Avenue
Board President
Division 1
                                                   Board Room – Second Floor
                                                        Mather, California
D’Elman Clark                                                   &
Board Vice President
Division 6                                             Remotely Via Zoom
                                                      Phone: (669) 900-6833
Walt White
Board Secretary                                    Webinar ID: 868 9856 3704#
Division 9                                           Passcode: 456 199 699#
Grant Goold
Board Member
                           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                     and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Randy Orzalli
Board Member
                       The Governor has declared a State of Emergency to exist in California as a result of
Division 3             the threat of COVID-19 (aka the “Coronavirus”). The Governor issued Executive
                       Order N-25-20 and N-29-20, which directs Californians to follow public health
Ted Wood               directives including canceling large gatherings. Per the State of Emergency effective
Board Member
Division 4             March 2, 2020, the Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       proclaimed that a local emergency exists, and authorized remote teleconference
Jennifer Sheetz        meetings from August 11, 2022 through September 9, 2022 pursuant to Brown Act
Board Member           provisions.
Division 5

Brian Rice             The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of the
Board Member           Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all appropriate health
Division 7
                       safety precautions. If you would like to view the meeting via the Zoom
Gay Jones              Application, please contact Board Clerk Penilla via email at the address listed
Board Member           below.
Division 8

                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
                       reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance
                       of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable accommodations:

                                                                  Melissa Penilla
                                                                    Board Clerk
                                                                  (916) 859-4305
                                                         penilla.melissa@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.



                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties



                                                                                                                                 1
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2022


CALL TO ORDER
ROLL CALL
PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT
The Open Session Meeting is videotaped for cablecast on Metro Cable 14. Replay on
Saturday, September 10th at 2:00 pm and Monday, September 12th at 2:00pm on Channel 14;
Webcast at metro14live.saccounty.net.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN DISTRICT
JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and encourages public
interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public members desiring to address the
Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding officer and identify themselves for the record.
The presiding officer may in the interest of time and good order limit the number of public member
presentations. Speakers’ comments will be limited to three minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members of the Public
requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be present or have a
representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of issues to
committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval, declaration of surplus
equipment, and other consent matters. Consent Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board
member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                 Page No.
1.   Action Summary Minutes                                                       6
     Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board
     meeting of August 25, 2022.

2.      Fire & Life Safety Building Plan Review Services                                                              12
        Recommendation: Award non-exclusive contracts to Interwest Consulting
        Group, Inc. and Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. for plan review services.

3.      Reimbursement Resolution – Tax-Exempt Debt                                                                    19
        Recommendation: Adopt a resolution authorizing reimbursement to the District
        for funds related to tax-exempt debt.

4.      Specialized Legal Services – Best, Best & Krieger LLP                               22
        Recommendation: Approve the use of Best, Best & Krieger for Specialized Legal
        Services with not to exceed $3,000 for the proposed adoption of the 2023 Fire Code.

5.      Resolution Adopting the FY 2022/23 Appropriations Limit Schedule                                              24
        Recommendation: Adopt a Resolution establishing an appropriation (Gann) limit
        Fiscal Year 2022/23.

                                                                                                                              2
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2022


ACTION ITEMS
1.   Ratification of Resolution to Extend Teleconference of Board                                                     28
     Meetings (Government Code 54953(e) (3)) (President Saylors)
     Recommendation: Consider adopting a Resolution which would extend the
     ability to teleconference without compliance of Government Code paragraph
     (3) of subdivision (b) of section 54953 from September 8, 2022 – October 7, 2022
     or until further re-ratified.

2.     Sacramento Regional Incident Management Team – MOA for Participation                                           30
       (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
       Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief to approve the MOA for participation
       in the Sacramento Regional Incident Management Team.

3.     Fiscal Year 2022/23 Final Budget (CFO Dave O’Toole)                                                            41
       **    Separate Attachment
       A. Resolution – 2022/23 Final Budget for the                              42
          General Operating Fund 212A
       B. Resolution – 2022/23 Final Budget for the                              44
          Capital Facilities Fund 212D
       C. Resolution – 2022/23 Final Budget for the                              46
          Grants Fund 212G
       D. Resolution – 2022/23 Final Budget for the                              48
          Development Impact Fees Fund 212I
       E. Resolution – 2022/23 Final Budget for the                              50
          Leased Properties Fund 212L
       F. Resolution – 2022/23 Final Budget for the                              52
          IGT Fund 212M
       Recommendation: Receive Presentation/Adopt FY 2022/23 Final Budget Resolutions.

4.     Capital Improvement Program Plan **      Separate Attachment                                                54
       (CFO Dave O’Toole and Jeff Frye, Chief Development Officer)
       Recommendation: Receive Presentation/Adopt FY 2022/23 CIP Resolution.

REPORTS

1.     PRESIDENT’S REPORT—(President Saylors)

2.     FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT—(Acting Chief Wagaman)
             OPERATIONS’ REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

3.    SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice President)

4.     COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
       All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
       10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.
       A.      Executive Committee – (President Saylors)
               Next Meeting: TBD


                                                                                                                             3
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                              THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2022


      B.      Communications Center JPA – (DC Wagaman)
              Next Meeting: September 13, 2022 at 9:00 AM

      C.      Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Orzalli)
              Next Meeting: TBD

      D.      Policy Committee – (Director Goold)
              Next Meeting: TBD


BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION
1.   Conference with Labor Negotiator
     Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6
     A. District Negotiator:    Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
        Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      B. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      C. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      D. District Negotiator:     Ty Bailey, Deputy Chief Administration
                                  Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
           Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                  and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

      E. District Negotiator:     Ty Bailey, Deputy Chief Administration
                                  Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
           Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                  and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

2.    CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL – ANTICIPATED LITIGATION –
      Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
      Section 54956.9 (b): One case
      A. Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
          Iryna Vorniku v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          Deputy Chief Bailey and Board Clerk Penilla

3.    PERSONNEL MATTERS – PUBLIC EMPLOYEE EMPLOYMENT
      Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957
      Fire Chief Selection Process

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

                                                                                                                          4
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2022


ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, 10545
Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA
     •     Regular Board Meeting – September 22, 2022 at 6:00 PM

The following action and presentation items are scheduled for the next board meeting agenda.
Board members are requested to identify additional action or presentation items they desire to
be scheduled on the agenda.

ANTICIPATED AGENDA ITEMS:                       TBD

Posted on September 2, 2022


______________________________________
Melissa Penilla, Clerk of the Board
* No written report
**       Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.




                                                                                                                                 5
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, CA 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3702


TODD HARMS             ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES – REGULAR MEETING
  Fire Chief

                                   BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                         SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                  Thursday, August 25, 2022
                                Held at the following locations:
                            10545 Armstrong Avenue – Board Room
                                       Mather, California
                                                &
                                      Remotely Via Zoom

    CALL TO ORDER
    The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm by President Saylors. Board members present in
    person: Clark, Orzalli, Saylors, Sheetz, and White. Board members present virtually via Zoom:
    Goold. Board members absent: Jones, Wood, and Division 7 (currently vacant). Staff present:
    Chief Harms, General Counsel Lavra, and Board Clerk Penilla.

    PUBLIC COMMENT: None

    Prior to taking action on the consent calendar President Saylors announced Consent
    Item 5 would be removed from the consent calendar.

    CONSENT ITEMS
    Action: Moved by Sheetz, seconded by Clark, and carried unanimously by members present to
    adopt the consent calendar as follows:

    1.     Action Summary Minutes
           Recommendation:       Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board
           meeting of August 11, 2022.
           Action: Approved the Action Summary Minutes.

    2.     Action Summary Minutes
           Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Special Board meeting of
           August 18, 2022.
           Action: Approved the Action Summary Minutes.

    3.     Purchase Approval – Six (6) Ambulance Remounts
           Recommendation: Approve the remounting of six ambulance remounts with Leader
           Industries.
           Action: Approved the purchase.

    4.     Hazardous Materials Response Agreement – Amador County
           Recommendation: Approve the reinstatement of the agreement and authorize the Fire
           Chief to approve the amendment for two (2) one-year extensions.
           Action: Approved the reinstatement and authorized the Fire Chief to approve the
           amendment.

    5.     Reimbursement Resolution – Tax-Exempt Debt
           Recommendation: Adopt a resolution authorizing reimbursement to the District for funds
           related to tax-exempt debt.
           Action: No action taken, removed from consent calendar.


                                                                                                                    6
PRESENTATION ITEMS
1.   Firefighters Burn Institute – 2022 Boot Drive (Joe Pick, Executive Director)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.
     Action: Presentation received, no action taken.

ACTION ITEMS
1.   Board Director Vacancy – Division 7
     Recommendation: Greet Candidate to fill the vacancy, and appoint Director and
     administer the Oath of Office.
     Action: Moved by Clark, seconded by White, and carried unanimously by members
     present to appoint Mr. Brian Rice to the vacant Board seat for Division 7. Chief Harms
     administered the Oath of Office to Director Rice, and Director Rice was seated at the
     dais for the remainder of the meeting.

REPORTS

1.     PRESIDENT’S REPORT—(President Saylors) No report.

2.     FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT—(Chief Harms)

Retirements
Congratulations to Engineer Kevin Henson on his retirement on August 12th, after 18 years of
service.

Promotions
Congratulations to the following members on their promotions:
   • Deputy Fire Marshal Amy Nygren
   • Supervising Fire Inspector Angela Hampton
   • Fire Inspector II Matthew Rieger

Reassignments
Captain Brett Randle was selected to fill the EMS Day Captain assignment.

Recruitment
Community Relations Coordinator and EMS System Technician both recruiting internally.

Meetings/Events
8/12, Sacramento CEO SOAK Event for ALS. Thank you to everyone who donated and
supported the inaugural Sacramento CEO SOAK event. The event was a huge success and
brought increased awareness for ALS.

Recently met with FAIRA Insurance Company to discuss potential options in the future. They
discussed coverage terms, and proposal language. While SDRMA has been a great partner,
they serve a wide variety of special districts. FAIRA only services fire agencies. We will continue
to work with our broker with hopes of having FAIRA as an option next year.

8/18, Metro Fire & Sacramento County 2x2 with Director Jones and Director Wood. Discussed
several items including: Sacramento County Statistics, Fourth of July, APOT Update, SAFER
Positions, and Zinfandel Funding Request Update. Overall, this was a very positive meeting.

August 25, 2022 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                            Page 2 of 6



                                                                                                      7
8/24, Labor Management Collaboration Meeting where several items were discussed including,
brown-out matrix, 56-Hour work comp position, use of therapy dogs.

Lastly, we were able to visit with Director Kelly and present him with his commendation
resolution. It was well-received with several people in attendance, including his family.

OPERATIONS’ REPORT
Assistant Chief Lozano from the training division gave the Operations Report, He started with
statistics since the last Board Meeting with 4,183 responses, an average of 298 calls per day.
Of those, 2,739 were EMS related, and 159 were fires or 11 fire per day.

There have been some updates to EMS Protocols which has allowed the MIH Unit to respond,
and so far the unit responded to two calls for service.

He reported the Health and Safety Division has seen an increase in the number of turnouts they
have cleaned. At this time last year they had cleaned 1,500 sets, so far this year they have
cleaned 2,000 sets. Health and Safety is doing a phenomenal job getting turnouts cleaned and
back out to crew members. This team effort couldn’t be done without logistics, great job
everyone.

3.     SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT
Vice President Local 522 Matt Cole welcomed Director Rice, and is looking forward to his
continued service to the community.

VP Cole recently attended the IAFF convention in Canada, he learned a lot on the floor and they
successfully moved several resolutions forward.

They recently had a negotiations meeting, which the Board will be briefed on in closed session.

He attended the presentation of the commendation to Director Kelly, he thanked the Executive
Team and Hazmat Crew for their attendance.

They are addressing several items with meeting throughout the District, including the use of
therapy dogs assisting members, staffing issues during the unit meeting with 60 members in
attendance, and recently held a Mocha Monday and Labor Management Meeting.

There are several upcoming events Local 522 will be participating in including the 9/11
Memorial Stair Climb, CPF Memorial to place Lobsitz’ name on the wall in Colorado Springs,
and the FF Burn Institute’s 50 Year Anniversary Celebration on September 24th.


4.     COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
       All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
       10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.
       A.      Executive Committee – (President Saylors)
               Next Meeting: TBD

       B.      Communications Center JPA – (DC Wagaman)
               Next Meeting: September 13, 2022 at 9:00 AM

August 25, 2022 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 3 of 6



                                                                                                         8
      C.      Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Orzalli)
              Report Out:     August 25, 2022 at 5:00 PM
              Met this evening and received a significant amount of information from CFO
              O’Toole. The level of detail is greatly appreciated.
              Next Meeting: September 22, 2022 at 5:30 PM

       D.     Policy Committee – (Director Goold)
              Next Meeting: TBD


BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS
The Board collectively welcomed Director Rice, and congratulated him on the appointment to
Division 7.

Director Orzalli attended Negotiations as the Observer earlier in the week. He also shared the
Public Safety Foundation has donated $500 to the ALS Foundation on behalf of Director Kelly.

Director White shared his admiration in the money that has been raised by the Firefighters Burn
Institute, it is a wonderful organization. The Medic Unit at Station 59 has been well-received by
the community, and he thanked the men and women of Metro Fire for the hard work they do.

Director Clark congratulated Chief Harms on the Fill-the-Boot Chief’s Challenge, and thanked
the Burn Institute for the work they do, it is truly God’s work.

Director Rice would be remised if he did not acknowledge Director Kelly for the years of service
in Division 7. He did such wonderful work on behalf of his community.

Director Saylors thanked the Burn Institute for carrying on the tradition of Fill-the-Boot for 28
years. She also congratulated the promotees and retirees, and thanked the men and women of
Metro Fire.


The board recessed to closed session at 6:41 PM.

CLOSED SESSION
1.   Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) –two (2) matters of
     Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
     A.    Rick Griggs and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
           Claim # 402105C38F2-0001 – Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
           Colin Connor of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP
           Action: Moved by Sheetz, seconded by Clark, and carried unanimously by
           members present to give settlement authority to the District’s third party
           administrator.

       B.     Kevin Henson and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              Claim # SMDQ - 549980 – Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
              Colin Connor of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP
              Action: Moved by White, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by
              members present to give settlement authority to the District’s third party
              administrator.
August 25, 2022 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                          Page 4 of 6




                                                                                                    9
2.    Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) – two (2) matters of
      Workers Compensation Compromise and Release
      A.    Daniel Baker and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
            Claim #s SMFW – 178603; SMDQ – 549871; SMDQ - 550051
            Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
            Colin Connor of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP
            Action: Moved by Rice, seconded by Sheetz, and carried unanimously by
            members present to give settlement authority to the District’s third party
            administrator.

      B.     Craig Henderson and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
             Claim # SMDQ - 550426 – Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
             Jessica Valenti of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP
             Action: Moved by White, seconded by Clark, and carried unanimously by
             members present to give settlement authority to the District’s third party
             administrator.

3.    Conference with Labor Negotiator
      Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6
      A. District Negotiator:    Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      B. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      C. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      D. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

      E. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees
      Action: No action taken.

4.    PERSONNEL MATTERS – PUBLIC EMPLOYEE EMPLOYMENT
      Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957
      Fire Chief Selection Process
      Director Goold left the meeting at 7:35pm and did not return.
      Action: No action taken.

The Board reconvened to open session at 8:01 PM.




August 25, 2022 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                     Page 5 of 6



                                                                                          10
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting was adjourned at 8:05 PM.


_____________________________                          __________________________
Cinthia Saylors, President                             Walt White, Secretary

_______________________________
Melissa Penilla, Board Clerk




August 25, 2022 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                    Page 6 of 6



                                                                                      11
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   Community Risk Reduction Division                    www.metrofire.ca.gov
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 310 · Mather, CA 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4330 · Fax (916) 859-3717


TODD HARMS
  Fire Chief



    Date:        September 8, 2022

    To:          Board of Directors

    From:        Barbie Law, Assistant Chief/Fire Marshal

    Subject:     Award Contracts for Fire & Life Safety Building Plan Review Services


                                              TOPIC

    Staff proposes the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board of Directors award
    non-exclusive contracts for Fire & Life Safety Building Plan Review Services to
    Interwest Consulting Group, Inc. and Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.

                                        BACKGROUND

    Since July of 2003, the Community Risk Reduction Division (CRRD) has been
    augmenting its plan review staff with the use of an independent plan review
    services contractor. Approximately 4,500 commercial and residential plans are
    reviewed by CRRD each year, and due to economic improvements in recent years,
    CRRD’s plan review workload has been increasing.

    Over the last five (5) fiscal years, 31.6% of plan reviews were completed by an
    independent plan review services contractor. The reasons for this are multifactorial
    including specialized plan review needs and transient staffing deficiencies related
    to the pandemic or Family & Medical Leave Act requests. While the staffing
    impacts of COVID-19 are greatly reduced, recent retirements, resignations, and
    promotions have left CRRD short three (3) fire inspectors. Although hiring is in
    process, it is anticipated that new inspectors will not come on board for at least
    another three (3) months. Hence, the continuing need for support from an outside
    plan review services contractor.

    The District’s goal is to complete all initial plan reviews within ten (10) business
    days from the date of submission. To continue to meet our service delivery goal of
    providing our community with expedient and quality plan reviews, the District is
    seeking a non-exclusive contract with interested and qualified persons and/or firms
    to provide plan review services on an as-needed basis for CRRD.




                              Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                             12
Page 2


                                            DISCUSSION

         A Request for Proposals (RFP 22-02) for CRRD Building Plan Review Services
         was issued on June 24, 2022. Per the RFP, the selected proposer shall provide
         plan review services as requested by the District for commercial and residential
         projects within the District’s boundaries. All reviews must be in compliance with
         current local, state, and federal codes adopted by the District.

         Six (6) proposers responded to the RFP. All proposers were deemed responsive.
         The proposers are listed in alphabetical order below:

         Firm’s Name

         Bureau Veritas North America, Inc
         CSG Consultants, Inc.
         FP&C Consultants
         Interwest Consulting Group, Inc
         West Coast Consultants, Inc. (WC3)
         4Leaf Inc.

         The proposals were independently reviewed by an evaluation committee
         comprised of CRRD and Economic Development staff. Each proposal was scored
         to determine its responsiveness to the District’s requirements and demonstrated
         ability to meet the District’s needs, anticipated value brought to the District, and
         conformance to submittal requirements. Evaluation was based upon the following
         criteria identified in the RFP:

                                    Criteria                               Weight
                  Proposer Efficiency and Experience With
                  Projects of Similar Size, Scope, and                      25%
                  Complexity
                  Qualifications and Experience of the
                                                                            20%
                  Proposed Project Team
                  Project Understanding & Methodology                       10%
                  Conformance to Specified RFP Format                       10%
                  Past Performance                                          15%
                  Fee Schedule                                              20%
                  Total                                                    100%

         The evaluation committee met with the Purchasing Division to discuss their scores
         on August 15, 2022. Based upon the evaluators’ final ranking, it is the intent of the
         District to award three year, non-exclusive contracts to the two highest scoring
         proposers; Interwest Consulting Group, Inc. and Bureau Veritas North America
         Inc. These two proposers were found to be to the most responsive and responsible
         proposers who demonstrated the best value for the District Each contract may be



                                  Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                 13
14
15
16
17
18
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite #200, Mather, CA 95655 ꞏ (916) 859-4300 ꞏ Fax (916) 859-3700



TODD HARMS
  Fire Chief




    DATE:           September 8, 2022

    TO:             Board of Directors

    SUBJECT:        Adoption of a Reimbursement Resolution – Tax-Exempt Debt


                                                   TOPIC

    Staff recommends adoption of the attached reimbursement resolution to reimburse the District
    for funds that have been or may be expended prior to issuing tax-exempt debt. The
    recommended action is in anticipation of the District entering into a capital lease transaction
    to fund the purchase of budgeted capital expenditures.

                                               DISCUSSION

    In order to legally reimburse expenditures made prior to the issuance of tax-exempt debt, a
    reimbursement resolution must be in place pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.150-2.
    Adoption of a reimbursement resolution does not bind the District to issuing future debt.
    Instead, a reimbursement resolution allows the District to use its own funds for capital
    expenditures and later repay itself from the financing proceeds.

    Purchases made after the reimbursement resolution adoption and those made no more than
    60 days prior to adoption are eligible for reimbursement. Staff anticipates the recommendation
    to finance not more than $8,000,000 of capital purchases in accordance with the Capital
    Improvement Program (CIP) and the FY2022-23 Final Budget. The capital purchases include
    medics, engines, copter conversion, and other vehicles and equipment.

                                             FISCAL IMPACT

    Adoption of the resolution will allow reimbursement of qualified District expenditures up to
    $8,000,000. Purchases that are projected to be delivered in FY 2022-23 have been included
    in the District’s FY 2022/23 Final Budget.

                                           RECOMMENDATION

    Staff recommends adoption of the attached reimbursement resolution.


    Submitted by:                                           Approved by:



    ___________________________                             __________________________
    Dave O’Toole                                            Ty Bailey
    Chief Financial Officer                                 Deputy Chief, Administration

                                 Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties                                        19
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite #200, Mather, CA 95655 · (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700



TODD HARMS
  Fire Chief

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2022-___


             A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR
  THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT DECLARING THE OFFICIAL
  INTENT OF THE DISTRICT TO REIMBURSE ITSELF FOR CERTAIN CAPITAL AND
  OTHER EXPENDITURES FROM THE PROCEEDS OF PROPOSED INDEBTEDNESS



  WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (hereinafter referred to as District)
  intends to purchase certain equipment, including medics, medic remounts, engines and
  other vehicles and equipment (Capital Assets); and

  WHEREAS, the District expects to expend some of its own funds to purchase the Capital
  Assets (Reimbursement Expenditures) prior to the issuance of indebtedness for the
  purpose of financing costs associated with the Capital Assets on a long-term basis; and

  WHEREAS, the District reasonably expects that the debt obligations for the Capital
  Assets will be issued in total for not more than $8,000,000 and that certain of the proceeds
  of such debt obligations will be used to reimburse the Reimbursement Expenditures; and

  WHEREAS, proceeds of such debt obligations will be allocated to Reimbursement
  Expenditures no later than 18 months after the latter of (i) the date the cost is paid or (ii)
  the date the Capital Asset is placed in service or abandoned (but in no event more than
  3 years after the cost is paid).

  NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the Sacramento
  Metropolitan Fire District, as follows:

  SECTION 1. Compliance with Treasury Regulations

  This declaration is made solely for purposes of establishing compliance with requirements
  of Section 1.150-2 of the Treasury Regulations. This declaration does not bind the District
  to make any Capital Asset expenditure or incur any indebtedness.

  SECTION 2. Intent to Reimburse the District from Proceeds of Indebtedness

  The District hereby declares its official intent to use proceeds of indebtedness to
  reimburse itself for Reimbursement Expenditures.




                                                                                                             20
                               Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
RESOLUTION NO. 2022-___                                                           Page 2



SECTION 3. Effective Date

This Resolution shall take effect from and after the date of its passage and adoption.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 8th day of September, 2022, by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:



                           SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                           By: _______________________________
                               President, Board of Directors



ATTEST:


_______________________________
Clerk of the Board




                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties                           21
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, CA 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3702


Todd Harms
 Fire Chief

    DATE:        September 8, 2022

    TO:          Board of Directors

    FROM:        Barbie Law, Assistant Chief/Fire Marshal

    SUBJECT: Specialized Legal Services

                                               TOPIC

    Award a contract for specialized legal services to Best, Best and Krieger, LLP
    500 Capital Mall, Suite 1700, Sacramento, CA, 95814.

                                           DISCUSSION

    The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is in final preparation to enter the code
    adoption process for local amendments to the 2022 California Fire Code. The
    Community Risk Reduction Division has a need to contract for specialized legal
    services for evaluation of the fire code amendments.

    Under the provisions of Section 18941.5 of the Health and Safety Code, local
    amendments are based on climatic, topographical and geological conditions. While it is
    clearly understood that the adoption of such amendments may not prevent the
    incidence of fire, the implementation of these various amendments to the code attempt
    to reduce the severity and potential loss of life, property and protection of the
    environment.

    The California Fire Code is updated on a triennial cycle and released on July 01 to allow
    for local agencies to begin the review and adoption process by January 01 of the year
    following the release. The 2022 California Fire Code will be effective January 01, 2023.
    Metro Fire has participated in the Sacramento Regional Fire Prevention Officer
    Association meetings with a continual discussion regarding local amendments to the
    2022 Fire Code and the adoption process.

    The Community Risk Reduction Division met with local Fire Marshals and surrounding
    fire agencies including Sacramento City Fire, Folsom Fire, and Cosumnes Fire District
    in an effort to discuss local/regional amendments to the 2022 California Fire Code and
    the appropriate adoption process. Further communication and outreach included the
    City of Citrus Heights, City of Rancho Cordova and the Sacramento County Building
    Department regarding the local amendment adoption process.




                                Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                            22
23
24
25
26
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Avenue, Ste 200, Mather, CA 95655 Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3716



TODD HARMS
  Fire Chief                       RESOLUTION NO. 2022-____
                            BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF
                  THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                          County of Sacramento, State of California

                 RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022/23
                      APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT SCHEDULE

WHEREAS, the voters of the State of California on November 6, 1979 added Article XIIIB
to the State Constitution placing various limitations on the appropriations of state and local
governments; and

WHEREAS, Article XIIIB provides that the Appropriations Limit for Fiscal Year 2022/23 is
calculated by adjusting the base year appropriations limit of Fiscal Year 2021/22 for
changes in the per capita income and regional population factors prepared by the State of
California’s Office of the Department of Finance, calculations of which are provided in the
attached Board Report and, by this reference, incorporated herein; and

WHEREAS, the District has complied with the provisions of Article XIIIB of the State
Constitution and Section 7900 et seq. of the Government Code in determining the
appropriations limit for the earliest affected Fiscal Year 1978/79.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Directors hereby establishes that the Appropriations
Limit in Fiscal Year 2022/23 shall be $421,347,811.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 8th day of September 2022, by the following vote to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

                                         SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT

                                         By: _________________________________
                                             President, Board of Directors

  Attested By:


  ____________________________
  Clerk of the Board
                                Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                              27
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite #200, Mather, CA 95655 · (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700



TODD HARMS
  Fire Chief

                                        RESOLUTION NO. 2022-___

   A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE
    DISTRICT PROCLAIMING A LOCAL EMERGENCY, RE-RATIFYING THE PROCLAMATION OF A
   STATE OF EMERGENCY BY GOVERNOR GAVIN NEWSOM MARCH 4, 2020, AND AUTHORIZING
   REMOTE TELECONFERENCE MEETINGS OF THE LEGISLATIVE BODIES OF THE SACRAMENTO
   METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT FOR THE PERIOD OF SEPTEMBER 8, 2022 – OCTOBER 7, 2022
                        PURSUANT TO BROWN ACT PROVISIONS.

  WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is committed to preserving and nurturing public
  access and participation in meetings of the Board of Directors; and

  WHEREAS, all meetings of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District’s legislative bodies are open and
  public, as required by the Ralph M. Brown Act (Cal. Gov. Code 54950 – 54963), so that any member of the
  public may attend, participate, and watch the District’s legislative bodies conduct their business; and

  WHEREAS, the Brown Act, Government Code section 54953(e), makes provisions for remote
  teleconferencing participation in meetings by members of a legislative body, without compliance with the
  requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3), subject to the existence of certain conditions; and

  WHEREAS, a required condition is that a state of emergency is declared by the Governor pursuant to
  Government Code section 8625, proclaiming the existence of conditions of disaster or of extreme peril to
  the safety of persons and property within the state caused by conditions as described in Government Code
  section 8558; and

  WHEREAS, a proclamation is made when there is an actual incident, threat of disaster, or extreme peril to
  the safety of persons and property within the jurisdictions that are within the District’s boundaries, caused
  by natural, technological, or human-caused disasters; and

  WHEREAS, it is further required that state or local officials have imposed or recommended measures to
  promote social distancing, or, the legislative body meeting in person would present imminent risks to the
  health and safety of attendees; and

  WHEREAS, meeting in person would present imminent risk to health and safety of attendees; and

  WHEREAS, the Board of Directors does hereby find that conditions causing imminent risk to attendees has
  caused, and will continue to cause, conditions of peril to the safety of persons within the District that are
  likely to be beyond the control of services, personnel, equipment, and facilities of the District, and desires
  to proclaim a local emergency and ratify the proclamation of state of emergency by the Governor of the
  State of California; and

  WHEREAS, as a consequence of the local emergency, the Board of Directors does hereby find that the
  legislative bodies of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District shall conduct their meetings without
  compliance with paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) of Government Code section 54953, as authorized by
  subdivision (e) of section 54953, and that such legislative bodies shall comply with the requirements to
  provide the public with access to the meetings as prescribed in paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of section
  54953; and

  WHEREAS, all meetings will be held in a virtual manner where the public may access them via the virtual
  platform with all login information provided on each board meeting agenda.




                                  Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                                   28
Resolution No. 2022-___


NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE
DISTRICT DOES HEREBY RESOLVE AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Recitals. The Recitals set forth above are true and correct and are incorporated into this
Resolution by this reference.

Section 2. Proclamation of Local Emergency. The Board hereby proclaims that a local emergency now
exists throughout the District, and meeting in person would present imminent risk.

Section 3. Ratification of Governor’s Proclamation of a State of Emergency. The Board hereby re-ratifies
the Governor of the State of California’s Proclamation of State of Emergency, effective as of its issuance
date of March 4, 2020.

Section 4. Remote Teleconference Meetings. The staff and legislative bodies of the Sacramento
Metropolitan Fire District are hereby authorized and directed to take all actions necessary to carry out the
intent and purpose of this Resolution including, conducting open and public meetings in accordance with
Government Code section 54953(e) and other applicable provisions of the Brown Act.

Section 5. Effective Date of Resolution. This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption and
shall be effective until the earlier of (i) October 7, 2022, or such time the Board of Directors adopts a
subsequent resolution in accordance with Government Code section 54953(e)(3) to extend the time during
which the legislative bodies of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District may continue to teleconference
without compliance with paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) of section 54953.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 8th day of September 2022, by the following vote to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:



                                                          Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District


                                                         __________________________________
                                                         President, Board of Directors

Attested By:


___________________________
Clerk of the Board




                               Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                               29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
             Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
             10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                          THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2022




                             Action Item 3

    Fiscal Year 2022/23 Final Budget
                   **        Separate Attachment




                                                                                                                  41
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA 95655   Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



TODD HARMS
  Fire Chief



                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2022-___
                           BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF
                  THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                          County of Sacramento, State of California


                     RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE FINAL BUDGET
                    FOR THE GENERAL OPERATING FUND 212A FOR
                              FISCAL YEAR 2022/2023

    WHEREAS, hearings have been terminated during which time all additions and deletions
    to the Final Budget for the General Operating Fund 212A for Fiscal Year 2022/2023 were
    made, and

    THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED in accordance with Section 13890 of the
    Health and Safety Code, the Final Budget for General Operating Fund 212A for the Fiscal
    Year 2022/2023 will be and is hereby adopted in accordance with the following:

                          FUND           COST                                                   BUDGET
      OBJECT    FUND     CENTER        CENTER        ACCOUNT CATEGORY                          FY2022/23
                                                     SALARIES & EMPLOYEE
         10     212A     2129212      2129212000                                               $214,586,793
                                                     BENEFITS
         20     212A     2129212      2129212000     SERVICES & SUPPLIES                         37,409,449
         30     212A     2129212      2129212000     OTHER CHARGES                                4,589,186
                                                     OPERATING TRANSFER OUT
         50     212A     2129212      2129212000                                                  4,987,680
                                                     (To 212D)
                                                     OPERATING TRANSFER OUT
         50     212A     2129212      2129212000                                                      8,837
                                                     (To 212G)
                                                     OPERATING TRANSFER IN
         59     212A     2129212      2129212000                                                 -8,700,000
                                                     (From 212M)
                                                                                              $252,881,945



    BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the means of financing the expenditure program will
    be by monies derived from all Revenue Sources, Fund Balance Available and Property
    Taxes.




                                Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                              42
RESOLUTION NO. 2022-___
Page 2

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Final Budget for Fund 212A for Fiscal Year
2022/2023 will be and is hereby adopted in accordance with the listed attachments which
show in detail the approved appropriations, revenues and methods of financing attached
hereto and by reference made a part hereof.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 8th day of September, 2022, by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

                                   SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT

                                   By: _________________________________
                                       President, Board of Directors
Attested By:

_____________________________
Clerk of the Board


ATTACHMENTS:
212A Final Budget Summary for FY2022/23 Schedule
212A Revenue Detail Schedule
212A Expenditure Detail Schedule




                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                          43
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



TODD HARMS
  Fire Chief



                                 RESOLUTION NO. 2022-___
                         BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF
                 THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                        County of Sacramento, State of California


                       RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE FINAL BUDGET
                      FOR THE CAPITAL FACILITIES FUND 212D FOR
                               FISCAL YEAR 2022/2023

  WHEREAS, hearings have been terminated during which time all additions and deletions
  to the Final Budget for the Capital Facilities Fund 212D for Fiscal Year 2022/2023 were
  made, and

  THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED in accordance with Section 13890 of the
  Health and Safety Code, the Final Budget for the Capital Facilities Fund 212D for the
  Fiscal Year 2022/2023 will be and is hereby adopted in accordance with the following:


                                                                                            BUDGET
                        FUND        COST
    OBJECT     FUND                             ACCOUNT CATEGORY                           FY2022/23
                       CENTER     CENTER
       10      212D    2123000   2123000000     SALARIES & EMPLOYEE BENEFITS                 $           -
       20      212D    2123000   2123000000     SERVICES & SUPPLIES                               125,000
       30      212D    2123000   2123000000     OTHER CHARGES                                    4,987,680
       41      212D    2123000   2123000000     CAPITAL ASSETS-LAND                                      -
       42      212D    2123000   2123000000     CAPITAL ASSETS-STRUCTURES                          18,000
       43      212D    2123000   2123000000     CAPITAL ASSETS-EQUIPMENT                     15,692,476
       44      212D    2123000   2123000000     CAPITAL ASSETS-SOFTWARE                                  -
                                                OPERATING TRANSFER IN
       59      212D    2123000   2123000000                                                   -4,987,680
                                                (From 212A)


                                                                                            $15,835,476


  BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the means of financing the expenditure program will
  be by monies derived from all Revenue Sources and Fund Balance Available.




                             Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                             44
RESOLUTION NO. 2022-___
Page 2

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Final Budget for Fund 212D for Fiscal Year
2022/2023 will be and is hereby adopted in accordance with the listed attachments which
show in detail the approved appropriations, revenues and methods of financing attached
hereto and by reference made a part hereof.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 8th day of September, 2022, by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

                                   SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT

                                   By: _________________________________
                                       President, Board of Directors
Attested By:

_____________________________
Clerk of the Board


ATTACHMENTS:
212D Final Budget Summary for FY2022/2023 Schedule




                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                          45
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA 95655   Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700




TODD HARMS
  Fire Chief



                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2022-___
                         BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF
                THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                       County of Sacramento, State of California



                      RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE FINAL BUDGET
                          FOR THE GRANTS FUND 212G FOR
                               FISCAL YEAR 2022/2023


  WHEREAS, hearings have been terminated during which time all additions and deletions
  to the Final Budget for the Grants Fund 212G for Fiscal Year 2022/2023 were made, and


  THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED in accordance with Section 13890 of the
  Health and Safety Code, the Final in the Grants Fund 212G for the Fiscal Year 2022/2023
  will be and is hereby adopted in accordance with the following:

                        FUND          COST                                                            BUDGET
    OBJECT     FUND    CENTER        CENTER        ACCOUNT CATEGORY                               FY2022/23
                                                   SALARIES & EMPLOYEE
       10      212G    2126000     2126000000                                                 $        4,541,307
                                                   BENEFITS
       20      212G    2126000     2126000000      SERVICES & SUPPLIES                                  529,317
                                                   TAXES, LICENSES, DEBT SRVC &
       30      212G    2126000     2126000000                                                                  -
                                                   OTHERS
       42      212G    2126000     2126000000      CAPITAL ASSETS-STRUCTURES                             78,425
       43      212G    2126000     2126000000      CAPITAL ASSETS-EQUIPMENT                             154,167
                                                   OPERATING TRANSFER IN
       59      212G    2126000     2126000000                                                             -8,837
                                                   (From 212A)
                                                                                                  $    5,294,379




  BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the means of financing the expenditure program will
  be by monies derived from all Revenue Sources and Fund Balance Available.




                              Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                                   46
RESOLUTION NO. 2022-___
Page 2

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Final Budget for Fund 212G for Fiscal Year
2022/2023 will be and is hereby adopted in accordance with the listed attachments which
show in detail the approved appropriations, revenues and methods of financing attached
hereto and by reference made a part hereof.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 8th day of September, 2022, by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

                                   SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT

                                   By: _________________________________
                                       President, Board of Directors
Attested By:

_____________________________
Clerk of the Board


ATTACHMENTS:
212G Final Budget Summary for FY 2022/23 Schedule




                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                          47
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



TODD HARMS
  Fire Chief



                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2022-___
                          BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF
                 THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                        County of Sacramento, State of California


                   RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE FINAL BUDGET
               FOR THE DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES FUND 212I FOR
                           FISCAL YEAR 2022/2023

  WHEREAS, hearings have been terminated during which time all additions and deletions
  to the Final Budget for the Development Impact Fees Fund 212I for Fiscal Year 2022/2023
  were made, and

  THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED in accordance with Section 13890 of the
  Health and Safety Code, the Final Budget for the Development Impact Fees Fund 212I
  for the Fiscal Year 2022/2023 will be and is hereby adopted in accordance with the
  following:


                       FUND          COST                                                      BUDGET
    OBJECT     FUND   CENTER       CENTER        ACCOUNT CATEGORY                              FY2022/23
       20      212I   2129000     2129000000     SERVICES & SUPPLIES                           $     90,000
                                                 CAPITAL ASSETS-LAND
       41      212I   2129000     2129000000                                                         40,000
                                                 ACQUISITION
       42      212I   2129000     2129000000     CAPITAL ASSETS-STRUCTURES                         1,150,000


                                                                                           $       1,280,000



  BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the means of financing the expenditure program will
  be by monies derived from all Revenue Sources and Fund Balance Available.

  BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Final Budget for Fund 212I for Fiscal Year
  2022/2023 will be and is hereby adopted in accordance with the listed attachments which
  show in detail the approved appropriations, revenues and methods of financing attached
  hereto and by reference made a part hereof.




                              Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                               48
RESOLUTION NO. 2022-___
Page 2


PASSED AND APPROVED this 8th day of September, 2022, by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

                                   SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT

                                   By: _________________________________
                                       President, Board of Directors
Attested By:

_____________________________
Clerk of the Board


ATTACHMENTS:
212I Final Budget Summary for FY 2022/23 Schedule




                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                      49
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA 95655   Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700




TODD HARMS
  Fire Chief




                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2022-___
                         BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF
                THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                       County of Sacramento, State of California


                   RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE FINAL BUDGET
                  FOR THE LEASED PROPERTIES FUND 212L FOR
                            FISCAL YEAR 2022/2023


  WHEREAS, hearings have been terminated during which time all additions and deletions
  to the Final Budget for the Leased Properties Fund 212L for Fiscal Year 2022/2023 were
  made, and

  THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED in accordance with Section 13890 of the
  Health and Safety Code, the Final Budget in the Leased Properties Fund 212L for the
  Fiscal Year 2022/2023 will be and is hereby adopted in accordance with the following:

                        FUND          COST                                                         BUDGET
    OBJECT     FUND   CENTER         CENTER        ACCOUNT CATEGORY                                FY2022/23
                                                   SALARIES & EMPLOYEE
       10      212L   2127000      2127000000                                                  $               -
                                                   BENEFITS
       20      212L   2127000      2127000000      SERVICES & SUPPLIES                                 880,379
       30      212L   2127000      2127000000      OTHER CHARGES                                       245,709
       41      212L   2127000      2127000000      CAPITAL ASSETS-LAND                                         -
       42      212L   2127000      2127000000      CAPITAL ASSETS-STRUCTURES                                   -
       59      212L   2127000      2127000000      OPERATING TRANSFER IN
                                                                                                               -
                                                   (From 212A)
                                                                                              $      1,126,088




  BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the means of financing the expenditure program will
  be by monies derived from all Revenue Sources and Fund Balance Available.




                              Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                                   50
RESOLUTION NO. 2022-___
Page 2

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Final Budget for Fund 212L for Fiscal Year
2022/2023 will be and is hereby adopted in accordance with the listed attachments which
show in detail the approved appropriations, revenues and methods of financing attached
hereto and by reference made a part hereof.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 8th day of September, 2022, by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

                                   SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT

                                   By: _________________________________
                                       President, Board of Directors
Attested By:

_____________________________
Clerk of the Board

ATTACHMENTS:
212L Final Budget Summary for FY2022/23 Schedule




                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                          51
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA 95655   Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700




TODD HARMS
  Fire Chief




                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2022-___
                         BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF
                THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                       County of Sacramento, State of California



                    RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE FINAL BUDGET
                            FOR THE IGT FUND 212M
                          FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022/2023

  WHEREAS, hearings have been terminated during which time all additions and deletions
  to the Final Budget for the IGT Fund 212M for Fiscal Year 2022/2023 were made;

  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED in accordance with Section 13890 of
  the Health and Safety Code, the Final Budget in the IGT Fund 212M for the Fiscal Year
  2022/2023 will be and is hereby adopted in accordance with the following:

                             FUND                                                                 BUDGET
      OBJECT    FUND        CENTER       COST CENTER            ACCOUNT CATEGORY                  FY2022/23

       20      212M        2121100      2121100000       SERVICES & SUPPLIES                  $     5,800,000

                                                         OPERTING TRANSFER OUT
       50      212M        2121100      2121100000                                                  8,700,000
                                                         (To 212A)

                                                                                              $ 14,500,000




  BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the means of financing the expenditure program will
  be by monies derived from all Revenue Sources and use of Fund Balance; and

  BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Final for Fund 212M for Fiscal Year 2022/2023
  will be and is hereby adopted in accordance with the listed attachments which show in
  detail the approved appropriations, revenues and methods of financing.




                              Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                                52
RESOLUTION NO. 2022-___
Page 2


PASSED AND APPROVED this 8th day of September, 2022, by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

                                   SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT

                                   By: _________________________________
                                       President, Board of Directors
Attested By:

_____________________________
Clerk of the Board


ATTACHMENTS:
212M Final Budget Summary for FY 2022/23 Schedule




                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                      53
             Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
             10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                          THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2022




                             Action Item 4

  Capital Improvement Program Plan
       ** Separate Attachment




                                                                                                                      54
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



TODD HARMS
  Fire Chief
                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2022-___
                          BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF
                 THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                        County of Sacramento, State of California

     RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM PLAN
                  FISCAL YEAR 2022/2023 – FY 2026/2027

  WHEREAS, on June 9, 2022 the District adopted a Capital Improvement Plan (CIP), and

  WHEREAS, the Fire Chief has reviewed and recommended necessary updates to the
  Plan which now reflect a total of 53 submitted projects with 18 prioritized for funding in
  conformance with the District’s long-term capital needs, and

  WHEREAS, the FY 2022/23 final budget includes funding for the FY 2022/23 CIP
  projects.

  THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the District that
  the FY 2022/23 CIP projects as outlined in the updated CIP plan are hereby approved
  and the Fire Chief is authorized to proceed with the implementation of these CIP projects
  as planned, and

  BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that any further additions or deletions by project title for
  the adopted FY 2022/23 – FY 2026/27 CIP will be authorized only upon recommendation
  of the Fire Chief and approved by the Board of Directors.

  PASSED AND APPROVED this 8th day of September, 2022, by the following vote, to wit:

  AYES:

  NOES:

  ABSENT:

  ABSTAIN:

                                       SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT

                                       By: _________________________________
                                           President, Board of Directors
  Attested By:

  _____________________________
  Clerk of the Board

                              Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                        55
