                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
     Todd Harms
      Fire Chief
                                           BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING

                                         Thursday, September 8, 2022 – 6:00 PM
                                               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Cinthia Saylors                                     10545 Armstrong Avenue
Board President
Division 1
                                                   Board Room – Second Floor
                                                        Mather, California
D’Elman Clark                                                   &
Board Vice President
Division 6                                             Remotely Via Zoom
                                                      Phone: (669) 900-6833
Walt White
Board Secretary                                    Webinar ID: 868 9856 3704#
Division 9                                           Passcode: 456 199 699#
Grant Goold
Board Member
                           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                     and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Randy Orzalli
Board Member
                       The Governor has declared a State of Emergency to exist in California as a result of
Division 3             the threat of COVID-19 (aka the “Coronavirus”). The Governor issued Executive
                       Order N-25-20 and N-29-20, which directs Californians to follow public health
Ted Wood               directives including canceling large gatherings. Per the State of Emergency effective
Board Member
Division 4             March 2, 2020, the Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       proclaimed that a local emergency exists, and authorized remote teleconference
Jennifer Sheetz        meetings from August 11, 2022 through September 9, 2022 pursuant to Brown Act
Board Member           provisions.
Division 5

Brian Rice             The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of the
Board Member           Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all appropriate health
Division 7
                       safety precautions. If you would like to view the meeting via the Zoom
Gay Jones              Application, please contact Board Clerk Penilla via email at the address listed
Board Member           below.
Division 8

                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
                       reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance
                       of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable accommodations:

                                                                  Melissa Penilla
                                                                    Board Clerk
                                                                  (916) 859-4305
                                                         penilla.melissa@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.



                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2022


CALL TO ORDER
ROLL CALL
PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT
The Open Session Meeting is videotaped for cablecast on Metro Cable 14. Replay on
Saturday, September 10th at 2:00 pm and Monday, September 12th at 2:00pm on Channel 14;
Webcast at metro14live.saccounty.net.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN DISTRICT
JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and encourages public
interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public members desiring to address the
Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding officer and identify themselves for the record.
The presiding officer may in the interest of time and good order limit the number of public member
presentations. Speakers’ comments will be limited to three minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members of the Public
requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be present or have a
representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of issues to
committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval, declaration of surplus
equipment, and other consent matters. Consent Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board
member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                 Page No.
1.   Action Summary Minutes                                                       6
     Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board
     meeting of August 25, 2022.

2.      Fire & Life Safety Building Plan Review Services                                                              12
        Recommendation: Award non-exclusive contracts to Interwest Consulting
        Group, Inc. and Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. for plan review services.

3.      Reimbursement Resolution – Tax-Exempt Debt                                                                    19
        Recommendation: Adopt a resolution authorizing reimbursement to the District
        for funds related to tax-exempt debt.

4.      Specialized Legal Services – Best, Best & Krieger LLP                               22
        Recommendation: Approve the use of Best, Best & Krieger for Specialized Legal
        Services with not to exceed $3,000 for the proposed adoption of the 2023 Fire Code.

5.      Resolution Adopting the FY 2022/23 Appropriations Limit Schedule                                              24
        Recommendation: Adopt a Resolution establishing an appropriation (Gann) limit
        Fiscal Year 2022/23.
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2022


ACTION ITEMS
1.   Ratification of Resolution to Extend Teleconference of Board                                                     28
     Meetings (Government Code 54953(e) (3)) (President Saylors)
     Recommendation: Consider adopting a Resolution which would extend the
     ability to teleconference without compliance of Government Code paragraph
     (3) of subdivision (b) of section 54953 from September 8, 2022 – October 7, 2022
     or until further re-ratified.

2.     Sacramento Regional Incident Management Team – MOA for Participation                                           30
       (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
       Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief to approve the MOA for participation
       in the Sacramento Regional Incident Management Team.

3.     Fiscal Year 2022/23 Final Budget (CFO Dave O’Toole)                                                            41
       **    Separate Attachment
       A. Resolution – 2022/23 Final Budget for the                              42
          General Operating Fund 212A
       B. Resolution – 2022/23 Final Budget for the                              44
          Capital Facilities Fund 212D
       C. Resolution – 2022/23 Final Budget for the                              46
          Grants Fund 212G
       D. Resolution – 2022/23 Final Budget for the                              48
          Development Impact Fees Fund 212I
       E. Resolution – 2022/23 Final Budget for the                              50
          Leased Properties Fund 212L
       F. Resolution – 2022/23 Final Budget for the                              52
          IGT Fund 212M
       Recommendation: Receive Presentation/Adopt FY 2022/23 Final Budget Resolutions.

4.     Capital Improvement Program Plan **      Separate Attachment                                                54
       (CFO Dave O’Toole and Jeff Frye, Chief Development Officer)
       Recommendation: Receive Presentation/Adopt FY 2022/23 CIP Resolution.

REPORTS

1.     PRESIDENT’S REPORT—(President Saylors)

2.     FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT—(Acting Chief Wagaman)
             OPERATIONS’ REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

3.    SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice President)

4.     COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
       All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
       10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.
       A.      Executive Committee – (President Saylors)
               Next Meeting: TBD
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                              THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2022


      B.      Communications Center JPA – (DC Wagaman)
              Next Meeting: September 13, 2022 at 9:00 AM

      C.      Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Orzalli)
              Next Meeting: TBD

      D.      Policy Committee – (Director Goold)
              Next Meeting: TBD


BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION
1.   Conference with Labor Negotiator
     Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6
     A. District Negotiator:    Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
        Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      B. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      C. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      D. District Negotiator:     Ty Bailey, Deputy Chief Administration
                                  Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
           Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                  and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

      E. District Negotiator:     Ty Bailey, Deputy Chief Administration
                                  Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
           Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                  and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

2.    CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL – ANTICIPATED LITIGATION –
      Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
      Section 54956.9 (b): One case
      A. Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
          Iryna Vorniku v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          Deputy Chief Bailey and Board Clerk Penilla

3.    PERSONNEL MATTERS – PUBLIC EMPLOYEE EMPLOYMENT
      Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957
      Fire Chief Selection Process

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2022


ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, 10545
Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA
     •     Regular Board Meeting – September 22, 2022 at 6:00 PM

The following action and presentation items are scheduled for the next board meeting agenda.
Board members are requested to identify additional action or presentation items they desire to
be scheduled on the agenda.

ANTICIPATED AGENDA ITEMS:                       TBD

Posted on September 2, 2022


______________________________________
Melissa Penilla, Clerk of the Board
* No written report
**       Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
