                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief
                                  ADOPTED
                  ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                              BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                      SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                Thursday, February 27, 2025
                               Held at the following locations:
                           10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                     Mather, California
                                                   &
                                        Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:03 pm by Vice President Costa. Board members
  present: Clark, Costa, Goold, Jones, Rice, Stark, and Webber. Board members absent:
  Saylors and Wood. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  No public comments were received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Goold seconded by Jones and carried unanimously by members present
  to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.      Action Summary Minutes
          Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
          of February 13, 2025.
          Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.      Adopt Resolution - Creation of Two New Funds for Measure 0
          Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the creation of two new funds to
          account for activities arising from the passage of Measure 0.
          Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-007.


  PRESENTATION ITEMS

  1.      Cancer Research & Prevention CPF-KP
          (Misha McKinney, RN, MHA, OCN, V.P. of Clinical Programs, Kaiser Permanente)
          Recommendation: Receive presentation.
          Action: Director Rice introduced Misha McKinney; presentation received.
2.        Canine Support Program Update
          (Captain Ryan Pulis)
          Recommendation: Receive presentation.
          Action: Peer Support Black Lab "Silver" was introduced; presentation received.

3.        Wellness, Health & Safety
          (BC Anthony Peck, Wellness, Health and Safety Division)
          Recommendation: Receive presentation.
          Action: Presentation received.

REPORTS

1.       PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

          No Report

2.       FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -       (Chief House)

Good evening, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public.

Updates & Acknowledgments:

     •    Promotion of Chief Anthony Peck: Chief Peck has been promoted to the rank of
          Assistant Chief, effective February 20, 2025, and assigned to Wellness, Health and
          Safety Division.

     •    Leukemia & Lymphoma society Firefighter Stairclimb: The 34th annual event is on
          March 9, 2025, with we have 19 firefighters participating this year. Including our own
          Brian Rice who is on the top individual donor at ($37,489), and Metro Fire leads as the
          top team donor with ($53,837).

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

Deputy Chief Mitchell brought up AC Chief Greene who spoke to honor Battalion Chief
Christopher Reed. BC Reed has been with Metro Fire for 35 years. BC Reed was not in
attendance but will be presented with a 35 years of service pin.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT

No Report

SUPPORT SERIVES - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

No Report

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
     No Report



2.27.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 2 of 4
4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
      10545 Annstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

      A.      Executive Committee - (President Goold)

               No Report

      B.      Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
              The Communications Center JPA last met two days ago, on February 25th . Prior
              to that meeting I was assigned by Chief House to be Metro Fire's representative
              to the Board. During the Board meeting my appointment was confirmed.

               Chief Bair from Cosumnes Fire was appointed to the Board Chair. The other
               Board members are Chief Matt McGee from Folsom Fire and Chief Scott
               Williams from Sacramento City.

              There were no other reportable actions.

               The next meeting is scheduled for March 11, 2025 at 0900 hours in this Board
               Room.

      C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
               Met tonight and received very informative reports from CFO O'Toole. A
               highlight was the slide "Funded Ratio Analysis: Pensions" and we've asked
               CFO O'Toole to dig a little deeper and about measures the other comparable
               Metro 14 agencies have taken to improve their funded level (market value of
               assets/accrued liability) relative to Metro Fire.

      D.       Policy Committee - (Director Clark)

               No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Jones thanked everyone involved with the Citizens Academy. Attended last night
and the energy was terrific.

Director Rice stated that he lost a good friend, Jack Church. Jack retired as an Engineer
from the Sacramento City Fire Department and was a member of Local 522 for 58 years.
would like to request that we close our meeting in honor of Jack.

Director Clark expressed gratitude for the presentations this evening and echoed the
comments Director Jones made regarding the Citizens Academy.

Director Costa thanked everyone that came out tonight and for the great presentations.

The Board observed a moment of silence for Jack Church.




2.27.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                       Page 3 of 4
CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 7:07 p.m. on the following matter:

1.    Pursuant to California Government Code 54957(a)
      Consultation with District Counsel and Cyber Security Manager

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened to open session at 7:30 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
the Board met in closed session with District Counsel and Cyber Security Manager; no
reportable action was taken in closed session .

To view the video of the meeting , please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2025-02-27-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA


ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 7:31 p.m.



Ted Wood, President                                 Robert Webirer,secretary




~~.~
Board Clerk




2.27.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                 Page 4 of 4
