                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700

  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA

                                           Thursday, February 27, 2025 - 6:00 PM
Ted Wood                                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                   10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4
                                                 Board Room - Second Floor
John Costa                                            Mather, California
Board Vice President                                          &
Division 9
                                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                   Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                     Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                    W Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member             https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ1 Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Division 1


Grant Goold
Board Member           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D'Elman Clark
Board Member
                       Application, please click on the link above.
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member           reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member           accommodations:
Division 8
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                Board Clerk
                                                              (916) 859-4305
                                                     rittburg.mar~i@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2025


►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov. Today's meeting replays at 1:30 p.m. on Saturday,
March 1, 2025 and again at 6:00 p.m. on Monday, March 3, 2025, on Metro Cable
Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand at
voutube.comlmetrocable 14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers' comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                    Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                              5
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of February 13, 2025.

2.     Adopt Resolution - Creation of Two New Funds for Measure O               12
       Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the creation of two new funds to
       account for activities arising from the passage of Measure 0.
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                             THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2025


PRESENTATION ITEMS:
1.   Cancer Research & Prevention CPF-KP                                          16
     (Misha McKinney, RN, MHA, OCN, V.P. of Clinical Programs, Kaiser Permanente)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation.

2.   Canine Support Program Update                                                                                       **
     (Captain Ryan Pulis)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation.

3.   Wellness, Health & Safety                                                                                           29
     (BC Anthony Peck, Wellness, Health and Safety Division)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation.

REPORTS:

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                 (President Wood)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -               (Chief House)

            OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
            ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica) - No
            Report
            SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman) - No Report

3.   SMFD- FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT- (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
     522 Vice President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

     A.     Executive Committee - (President Wood)
            Next Meeting: TBD

     B.     Communications Center JPA - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)
            Next Meeting: February 25, 2025 & March 11, 2025 at 9:00 AM

     C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
            Next Meeting: March 27, 2025 at 5:30 PM

     D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
            Next Meeting: March 13, 2025 at 5:30 PM
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2025


BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter:

1.       Pursuant to California Government Code 54957(a)
         Consultation with District Counsel and Cyber Security Manager

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING($):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •   Regular Board Meeting - March 13, 2025 at 6:00 PM

Posted on February 24, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.



M~~g~
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
'GDI Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility to this meeting.
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I

                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702
lfiu~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief       ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING
                              BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                      SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                Thursday, February 13, 2025
                               Held at the following locations:
                           10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                      Mather, California
                                               &_
                                     Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:01 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
  Clark, Jones, Rice, Saylors, Stark, Webber, and Wood. Board members absent: Costa and
  Goold. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  One (1) public comment was received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Jones seconded by Clark and carried unanimously by members present to
  adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.     Action Summary Minutes
         Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
         of January 23, 2025.
         Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

 2.      Parking Lot Lease - 7629 Greenback Lane
         Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to negotiate and execute a
         lease agreement materially similar to the attached.
         Action: Approved.

 PRESENTATION ITEMS

 1.      District Policies 2024 Year End Review
         (Chief Human Resources Officer Melisa Maddux)
         Recommendation: Receive presentation.
         Action: Presentation received .




                                                                                                           P5
2.     Measure O General Obligation Bond Management Plan
       (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
       Recommendation: Receive presentation.
       Action: Presentation received.

ACTION ITEMS

1.     Formation of an Ad Hoc Committee to consider the qualifications and selection
       criteria for members of the Measure O Citizens' Oversight Committee.
       (President Wood)
       Recommendation: Renominate three Board Members to an Ad Hoc Committee to
       consider the qualification and selection criteria for members of the Measure O Citizens'
       Oversight Committee and report back recommendations to the Board at the April 10, 2025
       Board meeting or soon thereafter.
       Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by
       members present to appoint Directors Jones, Saylors and Stark to an Ad Hoc
       Committee to consider the qualification and selection criteria for members of the
       Measure O Citizens' Oversight Committee and report back recommendations to the
       Board at the April 10, 2025 Board meeting or soon thereafter.

2.     Adopt Resolution - Contract Award - Municipal Advisory Services
       (CFO Dave O'Toole)
       Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the award of RFP 24-04 Municipal
       Advisory Services to KNN Public Finance, LLC and authorize the Fire Chief or his
       designee to execute and.administer a professional service agreement to provide municipal
       advisory services for a five-year period, with an option to renew for five additional one-year
       periods.
       Action: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by
       members present to adopt Resolution 2025-004 approving the award of RFP 24-04
       Municipal Advisory Services to KNN Public Finance, LLC and authorized the Fire Chief
       or his designee to execute and administer a professional service agreement to provide
       municipal advisory services for a five-year period, with an option to renew for five
       additional one-year periods.

3.     Memorandum of Understanding with County of Sacramento for Investment of
       Surplus Funds
       (CFO Dave O'Toole)
       Recommendation: Adopt the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) authorizing the
     • Chief Financial Officer to invest funds in the Special Project Fund outside of the County
       Treasury.
       Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by
       members present adopting the MOU authorizing the CFO to invest funds in the Special
       Project Fund outside of the County Treasury.

4.    Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement - Fire Investigator II Steven
      Johnson
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
      finding Fire Investigator Johnson has suffered job related injuries incapacitating him for the
      performance of duties as a Fire Investigator II and direct staff to continue working with Fire
      Investigator Johnson through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
      Action: None, item to be voted on after discussion in Closed Session.

                                                                                                   P6
2.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 2 of 7
5.        Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement - Captain Andrew Whaley
          Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
          finding Captain Whaley has suffered job related injuries incapacitating him for the
          performance of duties as Captain, and direct staff to continue working with Captain Whaley
          through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
          Action: None, item to be voted on after discussion in Closed Session.

REPORTS

1.       PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

          No Report

2.       FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -       (Chief House)

Good evening , President Wood, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public.

Public Comment Follow-Up: Sailor Bar

Sacramento County's Fire Fuel Reduction (FFR) team assessed the area at Sailor Bar and
confirmed that fuel reduction is needed. They plan to access the site via Fire Road 2, with
work beginning mid-February and completion expected by May 2025.

Updates & Acknowledgments
  • NFPA Technical Committee: Fleet Manager Shea Pursell has been selected as
     Chair of an NFPA Technical Committee within NFPA 1910, with full Executive Team
     support.

     •    Metro Fire Citizens Academy: Our inaugural Citizens Academy launched on
          February 5, offering participants hands-on insight into our all-hazard emergency
          response. We had session number 2 last evening. Special thanks to BC Bryan Barthel,
          April West and all involved for coordinating this tremendous effort!

     •    Community Engagement: On February 7, Chief Wilbourn and I joined Folsom-
          Cordova School District leaders and city officials for the No Child Eats Alone campaign
          at Cordova Meadows. We were honored to take part in this impactful event and
          look forward to future opportunities to connect with and support our younger
          community.                                                            •

     •    Fill the Boot 2025: Over the four-day event, $185,220 was raised for the Firefighters
          Burn Institute. During the Chief's Challenge, approximately $44,000 was collected,
          with Chief Prete, Sacramento County Airport Fire, securing the win. Thank you to all
          who participated and contributed!

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

Shift Commander Spotlight

Deputy Chief Mitchell brought up C Shift Commander Jon Rudnicki who introduced Battalion
Chief Mike Slone (B13) who provided a member spotlight of Harry Belt. Harry Belt is a long-
standing CERT member who is retiring from the program after 15 years. Mr. Belt is an EMT,
                                                                                                    P7
2.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 3 of 7
medical lead and the trainer for "stop the bleed", FEMA certified instructor for CERT basic
class, worked on our CERT severe weather team and was instrumental in getting the
firefighter rehab program together. He will be moving out of state and he will be greatly
missed and we wish him the best of luck.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT

No Report

SUPPORT SERIVES - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

It is great to stand before you once again. Since my return this week, I have engaged with
several division managers within Support Services to assess our current status to maintain
our strategic direction moving forward. I aim to conclude these meetings by early next week
to provide effective support, guidance, and direction when appropriate.

I am pleased to report that the leadership demonstrated by our Division Managers has been
marked with positivity, productivity, and unwavering dedication during my absence; for this, I
am profoundly grateful.

In light of our ongoing discussions, I would like to share a few updates from the Support
Services Branch.

Facilities:
We recently updated a bathroom at the arson building located at 3000 Fulton Ave., receiving
positive feedback from the crews. The station privacy project has entered year three, with
Station 51 nearing completion, which I look forward to reviewing this week. Additionally,
Station 1OS's roof has been successfully repaired following water intrusion and dry rot
identification.

Fleet:
Over the past few months, five new ambulances have been received, outfitted, and placed
into service, with two additional ambulances and four squads expected in April. We have also
acquired a new arson vehicle, with parts for its up-fit arriving shortly.

CRRD:
On the arson front, I would like to invite Out of Class Fire Marshal Chief Nygren to provide updates
on recent activities from our Fire Investigations Bureau. Over the last six weeks, they have
conducted 39 origin and cause investigations, out of that 24 were considered incendiary and four
we were able to get an arrest on. In addition, there are two cases open that will have additional
charges added for fire causes. Amazing work from our investigations team, Alex Morton, Jeff-
Sergeant, out of class investigator Christa Aney and our new investigator Ryan Davis, who started
January 2nd . We appreciate everything they do.

3. SMF_ D - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
   In place of Sean Scollard, 522 President Trevor Jamison spoke on the importance of
   Measure O and the trust placed on the agency by the community. We've been partners in
   this, the advocacy that we were able to spin up on the labor side was second to none.
   Many people commented about our ability to highlight what we can do and what we're
   going to do and use the 522 logo, Sacramento Area Firefighters, to be th e advocates to
                                                                                                 PB
2.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 4 of 7
     the community. It's important that as we were a stakeholder in advocating for Measure 0,
     I do not want to get left out moving forward. I want to make sure that are men and women
     on the labor side are consulted and asked about what we think is right before a final                                .I
     decision is made. We want to continue to be part of the solution and make it better for our
     members.

     Andy Whaley, thank you for always lending a hand and have a great retirement.

4.      COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
        All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
        10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

        A.      Executive Committee - (President Goold)

                 No Report

        B.      Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
                The last meeting was cancelled. The next meeting will take place at Metro Fire
                Headquarters on February 25, 2025, at 9:00 AM.

        C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
                 No Report

        D.       Policy Committee - (Director Clark)

                 Met tonight on one administrative policy, discipline policy, and reviewed for
                 notification purposes only.

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Rice I've spent quite a bit time in Los Angeles doing some relief work and legislative
work but I want to acknowledge all California Firefighters. It's been frustrating to me that the
narrative in the press is on the building losses and of the buildings saved and independent
action of private firefighters. I believe that the narrative should be that California Firefighters, •
Los Angeles City and County, Pasadena, Sierra Madre, Burbank, Glendale and all those
departments there were first in and then the mutual aid companies that came in after and we
only lost 27 people and that is extremely tragic. The men and women of the first served rose
that day and they are the reason that those numbers are not in the thousands. Could you ,
imagine if we were talking about 17,000 souls lost as opposed to 17,00 buildings. Nobody
does it like California Firefighters, your training and commitment to your communities is
second to none.

Director Clark thanked the men and women of CERT and Godspeed to Harry Belt on your
retirement. Welcome back to DC Wagaman.
         '
Director Webber  thanked the men and women of CERT and congratulated Harry Belt on his
retirement. To Andy Whaley I had the privilege of working with Andy for many, many years.
He was an excellent Firefighter and very competent. Andy has always done the right thing
and congratulations on your retirement.

Director Wood echoed the sentiments of his fellow Directors. I did get a chance to attend the
Citizens Academy yesterday and the presentations were great and the questions that were
                                                                                                                     pg
2.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                         Page 5 of 7
asked were amazing. It was well attended and people were involved and were engaged.
Chief Barthel and April West, you both did a great job and I hope this continues on into the
future. The Firefighters Burn Institute "Fill the Boot for Burns" drive will great despite the rain.
Chief House, thanks for all your participation as well as Chief Mitchell and Chief Fiorica. I
saw a lot of our members; we were well represented. Having the helicopter there was
outstanding and the kids enjoyed being able to climb through it and meet the pilots. Thank
you to everyone that came out to support the Firefighters Burn Institute.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 7:16 p.m. on the following matters:

1. PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (A) -TWO (2)
   MATTERS OF WORKERS COMPENSATION SETTLEMENT AUTHORITY.

   1.   Jason Cahill and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
        Claim # 4A2305MHPDS0001 - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
        Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer
        Action: Moved by Webber, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by
        members present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a
        settlement of the matter.

   2.   Eric Haus and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
        Claim # 4A2306VDWW0-0001, - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
        Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer
        Action: Moved by Clark, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by members
        present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a settlement of the
        matter.

2. PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (A) - TWO (2)
   MATTERS OF INDUSTRIAL DISABILITY RETIREMENT.

   1.   Steven Johnson and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
        Claim #SMDP - 549755 - Industrial Disability Retirement
        Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer

   2.   Andrew Whaley and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
        Claim # 4A2301 JCRWJ0001 - Industrial Disability Retirement
        Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened to open session at 7:37 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
the Board met in closed session on four matters. 1. Workers Compensation claim of Jason
Cahill, the Board voted unanimously to give authority to it's third-party administrator to
effectuate a settlement of that workers compensation claim. 2.. Workers Compensation
claim of Eric Haus, the Board voted unanimously to give authority to its third-party
administrator to effectuate a settlement of that workers compensation claim. 3. Industrial
Disability Retirement of Steven Johnson; no reportable action was taken in closed session
and will proceed in open session now. 4 .. Industrial Disability Retirement of Andrew Whaley;
no reportable action was taken in closed session and will proceed in open session now.

ACTION ITEMS CONTINUED TO AFTER CLOSED SESSION:
                                                                                                       P10
2.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 6 of7
4.    Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement - Fire Investigator II Steven
      Johnson
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
      finding Fire Investigator Johnson has suffered job related injuries incapacitating him for the
      performance of duties as a Fire Investigator II and direct staff to continue working with Fire
      Investigator Johnson through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
      Action: Moved by Director Stark, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-005.

5.     Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement - Captain Andrew Whaley
       Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
       finding Captain Whaley has suffered job related injuries incapacitating him for the
       performance of duties as Captain, and direct staff to continue working with Captain Whaley
       through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
       Action: Moved by Director Rice seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by
       members present to adopt Resolution 2025-006.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2025-02-13-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA


ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 7:40 p.m.



Ted Wood, President                                 Robert Webber, Secretary



Marni Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk




                                                                                                P11
2.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 7 of 7
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702




DATE:          February 27, 2025

TO:            Board of Directors

SUBJECT:       Creation of Two New Funds for Measure 0


                                            TOPIC

Staff requests that the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (District) Board of
Directors (Board) authorize the creation of two new funds to account for activities
arising from the passage of Measure 0.

                                      BACK(;ROUND

On November 5, 2024, voters approved Measure 0, authorizing the District to issue
up to $415 million in General Obligation (GO) bonds for capital projects. The District
plans to issue and commit GO bond proceeds over the next 1O years. The proceeds
from the issuance and sale of the GO bonds may only be used for authorized capital
projects while the related property tax levies will be used to pay for the debt service
on the bonds.

                                        DISCUSSION

To properly account for these transactions in accordance with Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles and to comply with various laws and regulations including
Measure O provisions, it will be necessary to create two funds as follows:

      1. Measure O Bond Fund to account for the proceeds and use of future general
         obligation bond sales, designated as Fund O or 2120.

   2. Measure O Debt Service Fund to account for tax collections and bond debt
      service, designated as Fund Nor 212N.

The funds will be created in each of the District's and the County of Sacramento's ,
accounting system. All transactions will be accounted in accordance with the District's '
established financial guidelines. The Chief Financial Officer will oversee the
investment and management of monies deposited in these funds .

                                      FISCAL IMPACT

There is no immediate fiscal impact for the creation of these new funds.
Appropriations for each of these funds for the next fiscal year shall follow the District's
established budgeting process.


                            Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                             P12
Page 2




                                       RECOMMENDATION

         Staff recommends that the Board adopt a resolution to authorize the creation of two
         new funds for the aforementioned purposes.




                                                         A~✓
         Submitted by:



         Dave O'Toole                                    Adam House
         Chief Financial Officer                         Fire Chief




         ATTACHMENTS:
         Resolution




                                                                                               P13
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief



                                RESOLUTION NO. 2025-XXX

  A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT FOR
          THE CREATION OF TWO NEW FUNDS TO ACOUNT FOR
                     MEASURE O TRANSACTIONS


         WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political
  subdivision of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant
  to the State constitution and laws; and

          WHEREAS, on November 5, 2024, voters approved Measure 0, authorizing the
  District to issue up to $415 million in General Obligation (GO) bonds for capital projects;
  and

          WHEREAS, to properly account for Measure O transa'Ctions, the creation of two
  new funds will be required, one fund to account for the proceeds and use of general
  obligation bonds and another fund to account for bond debt service and the related tax
  collections; and

         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the
  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District hereby authorizes the creation of two new funds
  and hereby directs the District's Finance Division and the County of Sacramento to
  establish these funds for use beginning in fiscal year 2025/26 as follows:

                1. Measure O Bond Fund to account for the proceeds and use of future
                   general obligation bond sales, designated as Fund O or 2120.

                2. Measure O Debt Service Fund to account for tax collections and bond debt
                   service, designated as Fund Nor 212N.

         BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the District's Chief Financial Officer or his
  designee are hereby authorized to take all necessary steps to establish these new funds
  with the County of Sacramento, including the execution of any required documentation;

         Bl: IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that all deposits and disbursements for these new
  funds shall be accounted for and managed in accordance with the District's established
  financial guidelines and that regular reports on the activity of these new funds shall be
  presented to the governing body for review and oversight.         •



                               Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                          P14
RESOLUTION NO. 2025-XXX
Page2


        PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 27 th day of FEBRUARY 2025. I,
MARNI RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE
DISTRICT HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a
regular meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll
call vote:

AYES:
NOES:
                                                                                                 .,
ABSENT:                                                                                           I


ABSTAIN:


                                 SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                 By: - - - - - -- - - - - - - -
                                     President, Board of Directors

ATTEST:


Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board




                                                                                           P15
                                                                            c.o
                                                                            ,.....
                                                                            a..




                                                        February 27, 2025
                                +
~~        C.\Lll,11'.NI\
(i ~~) I' ROf r I \ I() N; I        • •, • KAISER
 ~   \'   FI R ff IC H TF R ~       ~'
                                    ~   -
                                       ftt PERMANENTE




Cancer Research & Prevention
                                                                                             r-
                                                                                             ,-
                                                                                             a..




         Ove rvi ew & Orientation to
         CPF - KP Partnership

        Misha McKinney, RN, MHA, OCN
        Vice President of Clinical Programs, Kaiser Permanent e

         ~   -;ar:e,d for Sacramento Metropolit an Fi re DistriGt B~ rd
                                                       ---
 ---
·----
---~ ~               -----          --                   -                  ~~

                                                                          F'1 KAISER PERMANENTE-
                                                                                                                                                                          CX)
                                                                                                                                                                          ,-
                                                                                                                                                                          a..




  Overview: CPF - KP Collaboration on Cancer Research & Prevention                                                              2025 - 2026
                                                   Vision                                                  Background

                        Improve the health and longevity of                    The California Professional Firefighters has a long-standing interest
                        California's firefighters with industry leading        in understanding the cancer risk faced by its members. KP, as a key
                        screening and wel lness services along with            integrated health provider for this population, is partnering with
                        rigorous long-term research on cancer risks            CPF to understand this risk and co-design programs that meet the
                        associated with occupational exposure.                 unique health & wel lness needs of f irefighters.



                                                   2025                                                           2025-2026

                                        Cancer Research : Part 1                                           Cancer Research: Part 2

                Epid emiologic study: Frequency and rates of                               Telomere study: Understand exposure to hazard o us
                cance r and specifi c types of cancer among                                substances, environmental toxins, and biological
                firefighte rs who are KP m e mbers.                                        aging among firefighters w ho are KP members



                                                                     Cancer Prevention Partnership                                   Sacramento
                                                                                                                                     Metropolitan Fire has
                                                  Screening, wellness, and health promotion: Develop and                             been asked to p lay a
                                                  disseminate information on cancer prevention tailored to California                key leadership ro le in
                                                  Professional Firefighters -- including but not limited to KP members.              t his wo rk.

Confidential & Proprietary- Notfor Distribution
                                                                                                                                       Copyrig ht~ 2025 Kaiser Permanent e I 3
P19
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              N
                                                                                                              c..




        Landscape Analysis High lights
        Cancer Prevention For F_irefighters

        Prepared by Rosanna Tran, MPH                                                     ,..,..

~ Consultant V, National Health Plan and Hospital Quality, K9i.s~r~~e~mane_nte
~   -
    ~          -                              ~         ~
                                                            ___,..,..
                                                            -- -·-' _ ,   -· _ ,   -· .....        - -·   ~



                                        - ~~



                                                 --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a..




           Cancer deaths increased sharply among
            firefighters between 1950 and 2014
     140· . - - - - - - - - - - - --                                                                                 - - - - - - -- --                                                                                           -

           j         ■ Other j                                                                                                                                                                -
     120 _           ■ cancer                                                                                                               7 ,.,
                                                                                                                                                I                  ,-,
                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  -       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     _

..         1                                                                                                                                                                        ~
     100
           l.                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                                                                ! - . 1 - - i- -                                      -       ~-         · ~             fo-


                                                     ~                                                                                     ~
                                               ,-;                                                                           - ._,,_.·'--:- ._ - ·- '"-- ._
-5
:
Q
~     BO

                                                                                                             -- -
.. I
""
,!
 e                            ~                ~                                                                                            ~~
~ 60       i-- .              ~                                                                                                  E---1-·lllr-¼..I-                                  -
t          •
                                      'Z
                                                            "'
                                                            r.
                                                                         ...
                                                                         :           ,.,        .•; - •l -- -
                                                                                                I"           :

i          I
     40                                    ,.._ -                                    ., -                                            -              -         ·-         -          -                 -        -             -           -
           I                                                                         ;          ~

           I:
      20 - t;,t!-'-f;r--tll.l• -           ~
                                                            . .          •
                                                                                                .
                                                                                                ~                -           -       -              1--       -          _..        ..__..,           -        -             i--         -
           I .
           I.                 .                                           I



       0 -,- - -..L:1.-,..Ja"-,-J""--- -...,...
                       .,.,                          .,,         ..,..         -
                                                                                  ... m
                                                                                   -- -...,.-       ....,_

                                                                    8 8 .g :g ... .... ·,o... .... o... ·
                                                                       ....
                                                                                                                 ..,..               '-1-           -:-                  ·- -       ...,..                     ....,..                   -


               ... ... ... ... ... ... ..... ... .... ... g.
                                                     ....   0            ll'l ·o                                         ll'l                             ·CO      0\           0                         N                          ~

                                                          ...,. o · '°
               0              0           0                                                     1/'l

               "'
               (1\     "'
                       Q'I
                              U)
                              OI
                                      "'
                                      '°
                                      O'I "    Q\·   Q\
                                                            0C)
                                                            a,
                                                                         co.
                                                                         O'I
                                                                               a,
                                                                              ·a,
                                                                                                O\·
                                                                                                Q'I
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                0             0 -                        0
                                                                                                                         N       N          N             N        N            N             N           ·N             N           N




                                   Source: Khazan. l:lclO! Mcdetc E11tcil11te Ecdacger:s Eic:efigbtPts. The Atlantic. 2015.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a..




                               Cancer Prevention
                               Hea lthy behaviors inside & outside of the firehouse
                               can make a big difference in preventing cancer.

                                   Unhealthy behaviors (such as poor diet, lack
                                       of sleep, physical inactivity) account for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            --         ---=---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :::=--:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            __.-·          __.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            --
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~... .,. .,,.                                ------~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .,..,.--             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ----.:::.:~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ::::---        -- ·
                                      18%                                                             16%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,·      ..,.. .-,--

                                   of cancer incidence                                        of cancer-related deaths
~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - ------ -
     ..... .......- ~~
          ~~~-:-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~                    -
          -:.::~~ ~ ~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                =--- ----_-_
                     ~~ ~-:-=----...~   _ ~ ~~              ~::::--::
                 ----
                - ·- -------==-------::::...::::~
                         -------..:
                          ---=::::::~- -
    ., '··-- ·- - ---------             ~
                                         -~
                                             :---  - -.:...--..; •• ·-



                                                               - -· •- --- - -- --
                                                        '="-------==-
                                                  . --=- ~
                                              - - ~ - ~ ·~



     ....._ - --- •-- ---=:::--..:::::::---=::- -
     ' - --- ·. -.::---·---. --.::::-:---.::=-::--=.::::::::--
                                                               -,
                                                            ::..-
                                                                          ·-
                                                                       ...C.---

                                                                           •


. . . . -. . . . . . . - ---- ---- . -.... ·----------==:-----.:.:_-----.::::------· Sources:
                                                                                              •
                                                                                                          •               • - · ·· ·   •




                                                                                                              • and oum?er of cancer cases and •deaths••attributable to potential! modifiable
                                                                                                                                                                                       ••     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   - -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :::::--.;;:         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~-==---------~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -·


                                                                                        lslami•et al. Proo.9rt,oo                                                                               • factors inthe lJoi • 1
- ___
-




      . . ._------------=---- - -
    .._



           ---.....:. .._____..______ ___
          ...   . . . ._   _   .     - - . _ _



                                                 :----..:.:._
                                              - - - - -.- _ _ _ _ _ - - - . _
                                                         .-



                                                            ---=.-=::-
                                                 ---=:::---=:.....-
                                                                                ...
                                                                                                                  1




                                                                                     2. Rock et al. Amenc;an Cancer Spqety guideline for diet and physical actjy;ty for cancPr pr:
                                                                                      -   -   -   -




                                                                                                   _
                                                                                                      -       -       ·




                                                                                                                                           -   ~      ----         --
                                                                                                                                                                                      ti
                                                                                                                                                                                -- __.,
                                                                                                                                                                                              ris~
                                                                                                                                                                                          CA· AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                                                          -- - - -
                                                                                                                                                                                                         J
                                                                                                                                                                                   ve[Lpn. • ancer ourna1,or C/m,c,ans. 2020.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,,. --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 •

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ••-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 , ted_5 Mes. CA. A Cancer Journal for Clm,c,ans. 2018•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            _..,___ - --- -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :Jr~· : 1:111; ,:go;;;nt   1r,st t u tc   rm,;,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C'?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a..




                                                Healthy behaviors can prevent cancer among firefighters
                                                                                                                                           • Healthy eating, physica l activity, and p hysica l fitness can
  • Firefight ers face higher risks of cancer diagnosis and mortality.
                                                                                                                                             counterbalance increased ris ks for many cancers.
  • Obesity - which impacts 30 to 45% of firefighters - is an additional risk
                                                                                                                                           • For some cancers, the benefits of p hysica l activity and fitness
    factor, particul arly for digestive tract cancers (oropharynx and colorectal).
                                                                                                                                             may be larger than the higher risk associated wit h firefighting .
                                                                              Increased Risk                                                                          Reduced Risk
                                                                                           !
                                                              Firefiahtina 1.2             I      Obesitv / Adioositv 2                      Mediterranean Diet2      Physical Activitv 1                              Fitness 1
        Malionant mesothelioma                           Incidence+ Mortality
                    Esoohaous                            Incidence+ Mortality              j Strong evidence, Sufficientstrength                    Incidence              Incidence
                                                                                           I
                        Kidnev                           Incidence+ Mortality              ! Strong evidence, Sufficientstrength                                           Incidence
                     Colorectal                          Incidence+ Mortality                  Strong evidence, Sufficientstrength                  Incidence

                                        Colon                    Incidence
                                      Bladder                    Incidence                                                                                                                                  Incidence
                                           Luna          Incidence+ Mortality                                                         I             Incidence                                               Incidence
                                      Rectum                      Mortality                                                           II                                   Incidence
                                      Prostate                   Incidence                 i      Suggestive, Limited Strength                      Incidence

      Brain/ Central Nervous Svs                                 Incidence                             Sufficientstrength

                       Leukemia                                  Incidence                                 Suggestive                 !
         Non-Hodqkin lvmohoma .                           Incidence+ Mortality                    Suggestive, Limited Strength

                                                                 Incidence                                                            !
                       Testicular
              Multiple mveloma                            Incidence+ Mortality                 Strong evidence, Sufficient strength

             Buccal cavitv / Pharvnx                      Incidence+ Mortality                                                                      Incidence
                              Larvnx                             Incidence                                                            I             Incidence
                                                                                                                                      !
                            M. melanoma                          Incidence                 I
,..
                                                                                                                                      I
      1. Smith et al. Ficefigbtiog-Associated Cancers· Cao Increased Physical Activity and Improved Cardiornspiratory fitness Be Prueotial Countermeasures? 2021.
      2. Lidoriki et al. Firefighting-Associated Cancers· Cao Healthier Body Weight and Eating be Potential Countermeasures? 2019.                                  Copyright© 2025 Kaiser Permanente - Confidential & Proprietary 18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -=:t"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a..




                                           Firefighters need clear & simple guidance on cancer prevention

     Cancer beliefs among fi refighters                                       hig hlights fromse/ected studies


                              I am at risk for developing cancer. 2
                                                                                                  88%
                                                                                                  agree
                                                                                                                                                      Firefighters understand that they are at risk of
                                     Develo p ing cancer cou ld                                   91%                                                 developing cancer, and believe they can lower
                         severely decrease my quality of life. 2                                  agree                                               their chances of getting it.
                               There's not much you can do                                        84%
                  to lower you r chances of getting cancer. 1                                     disagree

                               There are so many different
                                                                                                  63%
              recommendations about prevent ing can cer,
                 it's hard to know which ones to follow. 1


                     It seems like everything causes cancer. 1
                                                                                                  agree


                                                                                                  82%
                                                                                                                                [>                    At the same time, they may be confused about
                                                                                                                                                      how to interpret and apply prevention
                                                                                                                                                      recommendations.

                                                                                                  agree

                                                                                                  58%                                                 Firefighters ranked sleep, menta l well-being,
               Changing diet could decrease cancer risk. 2                                                                                            work-life balance and physical activity as most
                                                                                                  agree
                                                                                                                                                      important to address in the fire service. 1
         A health care provider, friend, o r family m ember
                                                                                                  89%
                has recommended that I change my diet
                                                                                                  no                                                  Diet-related information and interventions may
             to decrease my risk of developing cancer. 2
                                                                                                                                                      also be particu larly relevant and beneficial. 2,3

         1. Glasglow et al. Cancer Prevention Among firefighters· Examining I ife<Jyle Screening Behavior and Reliefs. Workplace Health & Safety. 2024. (N• 171 firefighters in Richmond, VA)
         2. McClanahan et al. Perceptions pf Preventable Cancer Burde□ Among IJS-Rased Eicefightecs- A Mixed Methods Cmss-Sectional S111dy. J of Nutrition Edu & Behavior. 2024. (N - 471 fire service workers across the US)
.&.l.t   3. Anderson et al. Firefighter perceptions of cancer rjsk· Results pf a qualitative study. Am Journal of Industrial Med. 2017. (N - 17 firefighters in S. Florida)                                                           .    .          .
r,                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - Conf1dent1al & Proprietary I 9
            -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a..




         Two For One                                                 Healthy behaviors reduce the risk of cancer and cardiovascular disease


   Cancer+ Heart Attacks                                                                                                                    Cardiovascular disease & cancer
   are the leading causes of death for firefighters                                                                                         prevention go hand-in-hand


                Fi refi g hte rs                                9%                                      14%                                     Cardiovascular disease (CVD) increases the
                        are ... •                          more likely                             more li kely                                 risk of cancer and cancer-related death.
                                                          to get cancer                         to die of cancer

                                           including but not limit ed to b ladder, colorecta l, skin (melanoma ), lymph
                                               node (non-Hodgkin's lymphoma), prostate, and t esticular cancer
                                                                                                                                                Moreover, cancer survivors are at higher risk
                                                                                                                                                of developing CVD, especially heart failure.
                Fatal Firefighter Inj uries by Type (2023)                                  Sudden Cardiac Deaths
                           Includes deaths within 24 hours of duty                        by decade, as a share of total
                                                                                            Excludes deaths within 24 hours of duty
       Sudden cardiac                                             4 0%                                                                          Addressing sha red risk factors ca n help
      Trauma/crushing _ _                                                                                                                       prevent both cancer and CVD:
   Unspecified medical -              9%                                                                         45%
                                                                                                    0                                                   • Hypertension                      • Smoking
           Asphyxiation      I   3%
                                                                                     45%        4S¾,       40% - - . ----- 36%
                                                                                                                                                        • Diabetes                          • Diet
                    Bums     13%                                                                                                                        • Obesity                           • Physica l activity
                 Gunshot 12%

                   Other •           7%
                                                                                   1980-89 '90-99 2000-09 '10-19               '20-23

                                                                                                                                        Sources: Bell CF et al. Risk of Cancer After Diagnosisof Cardjovasc1dar PiseasP. JACC CardioOncol. 2023.
  Sources: Gonzalez et al. firefighter Health: A Narrative Review of Occupational Threats and Countermeasures.                          • Florido et c1I. Cardiovascular Disease Risk Among Cancer Survivors. JACC. 2022. • Wilcox et al.
  Healthcare. 2024. • Campbell et al. f irefighter far.alities jn the United Stw•s I NEPA in 2023.                                      Cacdipyascolar disease and raorec shared risk faaocs and mechanisms- Nat Rev Cardiel. 2024.
~ ,are managemml j institute                                                                                                                                              Copyright© 2025 Kaiser Permanente - Confidential & Proprietary 110
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (N
                                                                                                                                                                                                     a...




                                                  Cancer screening rates among firefighters in Richmond, VA



                      -------------------------             ----------                   ..........................................

         Screening Type 1                            %        n          Notes
                        ............

                                                                         26% among US
                      Skin cancer screen ing         35%      167        volunteer firefighters 2


            Co lorectal cancer screening             70%      110        age 40+


                Prostate cancer screening            75%      97         male ag e 40+


                   Breast cancer screening           100%     9          female




         Sources:
         1. Glasglow et al. Ca ncer Prevent ion Among Firefighters: Examining Lifestyle. Screening Behavior. and Beliefs. Workp lace Health & Safety. -2024.
         2. Shah et al. Prevalence and Predictors of Skin Cancer Screening Among a Samp le of United States Volunteer Firefighters. Am J Ind Med. 2023.




f'I rare mn1U1gmtt11t j instit ute                                                                                                    Copyright© 2025 Kaiser Permanente - Confidential & Proprietary I 11
                                                                                                                                                                                              r-
                                                                                                                                                                                              N
                                                                                                                                                                                              a..




   Emerg ing Research Relevant to O ur Collaboration


                                                      OB Stanford Nutrition Studies Research Group
                                                      ~J' M E D ( C ( N E Stanford Prevention Research Center
                                                      IGNITE Firefighters' Health
      UCI !MS I COMPREHENSIVE                         Implementing Good Nutrition to Improve, Transform, and Enhance Firefighters' Health
         HEALTH                  CANCER CENTER
                                                      Stanford is partnering with the San Francisco Firefighters Cancer Prevention
     California Rrefighter Cancer                     Foundation to determine if a diet low in processed foods, mostly plant-
     Research Study (CAFF-CRS)                        based, and rich in fermented dairy can reduce cancer risk in f irefighters.

                                                      https://med .stanford.edu/ nutrition/research/current-studies/ ignite-firefighters--health.html
     Researchers from UC Davis and
     UCLA, in partnership with several
     collaborating fire departments, are
     examining occupational and lifestyle
     risk factors, such as diet and tobacco             0
                                                            HARVARD                          SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH
                                                                                                                       Surviving & Thriving Lifestyle app
     use, for firefighters and identifying              'O' T.H.
                                                            ' "' ",

                                                                 CHAN
     preventive strategies to lower the risk
                                                                                          \~G & Tl(,
     of cancer in firefighters.                                                                                        Researchers at Harvard's Kales are
                                                                                                                       developing and testing a new healthy
     https://health.ucdavjs.edu/cancer/ population-                                                                    lifestyle smartphone app, tailored
                                                                      :!!.
     healthlfirefighter-cancer-research.html
                                                                      ~ ,~- ~ W
                                                                                   ~·~-
                                                                        ~      '
                                                                                                        L. - "'
                                                                                                       '..-,4 :,J
                                                                                                                       towards young US firefighters.
                                                                             c,- si....
                                                                                      Ps, HEA'1
                                                                                                                       https://doj.org/10.3389/fendo.2023.1 250041



... care mnrmgemmt j institute                                                                                                Copyright© 2025 Kaiser Permanente - Confident ial & Proprietary j 12
                                                                                                                                                             co
                                                                                                                                                             N
                                                                                                                                                             a..



                'i~-




    ••·A
    C  · ·@  ~'l~,i·o· r:"E"'I~"i.<1 AP .@Q'. n.@T·IO.  f\:,J
          K ·~ : 1·,t .                ~
                                      f})~ -·· t'Ct"' - I 'J              ~
                                                                                                                                            '~qifP_jjFJ'-
                                                                                                                                            \    ··••·•·W/


·HO·ISPO.TS •          .. ..: '            .   .   -   .                  -   . -                                -------------------- Neck-
    CALIFORNIA FIREFIGHTER CANCER
    RATES LIKELY TO INCREASE BY:                                                                                       _________ ----·,Armpits
                                                                I
         ·•.   • 1 •• .···: i                              '.   ' • tjl
.
         ljilMA •r·······•·········
    MELAN.
    .                    •
                                    ················ 00 ,o
    ESOPHAGiAL ............. ...........;..... 60 8/o
  PRQSTATE ··'.····.. ·~·····..··········•,•.~·.··••.50~/o
                                                                                                                                 scii'.:i to
                                                                                                                                 RECEIVE·
· BRA.IN ..........·........:.......:~........ ~........ 50.0/c                                                                  A1COPV
   .'  .       ..       ..      -                                                   Gr0in ----------                             OF THESE
    MULT.I.PLE.MYELOMA ····.·········•·•·· 40°/o                                                                                 RESOURCES
    LEUJKEM.IA ...!.........•...... .. .......~......... 400/o
     . . • ' .. • • ... . '          • . •, .            3001:"·                                                               ·- ·. f!,'-pi,:ti,7-, I -
    KIDNEY .................................... ~ ...·..     ,c

    wo:MEN:FIR~FIGHTERS ONLY:.                                                      Knees -----· ---·-------··
    Bt.ADDER~••~·····:·············•.•·········~··· >1,000~/o
    NIOSH -study of c:aliforriio firefighters
                                  I.
P29
P30
                                                                         ~~--                                            ---·~-:..
__,__ " " " - - " - · - - - - .


                        •          •          •         •      •           •           •           •           •
                                                      VJ      p_.         ~          ~                                   u
                       p_.        :::s
                                  .......             .-t-                ....... tn ....... :::s
                                                                                             ......                      ~
                       (1)                            p       (1)         :::s :::s :::s .-t-
                       - - -s -
                       :::s
                       .-t-
                                  .-t-
                                  ....... "'d
                                  p        ........
                                             (1)
                                                      ~
                                                      (1)
                                                              :::s
                                                              .-t-
                                                                      p
                                                                      ........
                                                                               ::r
                                                                               p                 p
                                                                                                 ........
                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                             p
                       .......    .-t-                        ....... ...... . :::s                          .-t-
                                  (1)                 p_.                                                    (1)         ~
                       ......
                       (1)        p_. s      (1)
                                                              ......
                                                              (1)
                                                                      N
                                                                      ....... ()
                                                                               (1)
                                                                                                 ......
                                                                                                 N.
                                                                                                             p_.
                                                                                                                         <
                       p_.                             ~      p_. :::s         p_.               :::s                    VJ.
                                             :::s                        (Jq                     (Jq                     ~
                       p_.
                                  np         .-t-      \0                                                    0.......
                                             (1)          "'d                                    ""O         V,
                       ...... :::s           p_.       VJ 0                          0........   '"i         .-t-
                       <                                      .-t-        ~                       (1)        '"i
                                                                                                                         0
                       ....... () (1)
                                                       s::    (1)
                       V,                             "'d                 ""O ........ ........ ...... .
                                                                                                 ......      ()
                       .......    '"i
                                             i'O
                                             (1) "'d          :::s
                                                              .-t-
                                                                                     0                       .-t-
                       0                     p                .......
                       :::s       ~
                                  p          p_.
                                                       0
                                                       '"i
                                                       .-t-
                                                              p
                                                              ........
                                                                       8' n
                                                                          '"i
                                                                          p
                                                                                                 s....... tn
                                                                                                 :::s        ;x
                                                                                                                         z
                       V,         V,                                      (1)                    p
                       .-t-                 '-<        ""O                           "'d          '"i        "'d
                       p          ~                    '"i
                                                              ~           :::s                               0
                                                                                                                         >
                                             i'O              (1)
                                  ~          (1)       0      ........
                                                              ........
                                                                          ::r
                                                                          p
                                                                               ~ '-< V,
                                                                               .......                                   n
                                  0          cr'      (Jq                      ........
                                                       '"i    :::s        :::s
                       s:::s      '"i        0                (1)         ()
                                                                                        tn ~
                                                                               ....... ;x
                                                                               .-t-        (1)
                      (Jq         ()                   p                       ... .             "'d
                                                                                                                         n
                                                              V,          (1)         (1)
                                  (1)                         V,
                       p                     §         s                  p_.        V,           0          i'O
                                             p_.                                                  V,         (1)
                                                                                                                         0
                       :::s                                   ()
                       p_.                                    (1)        "'d                                  p_.
                                                              :::s        ::r                     ~
                                                                                                  (1)         s::
                      "'d                                     .-t-       '-<                                  ()         ~
                       '"i
                       .......                                (1)         V,                                  .-t-
                       0                                      '"i         .......                 i'O         ...... .   ~
                                                                          ()                      (1)         0
                       '"i
                       .......                                ........    p                       p_.
                       .-t-                                   0           ........                            :::s       r
                       .......                                ()                                  s::                    ~
                       (1)                                                (1)                     ()          ""O
                       V,                                     ~ ;x                                .-t-        '"i
                                                              ....... p
                                                                                                  ......      0          VJ.
                                                              0                                   0          (Jq
                                                              :::s        s                       :::s        '"i
                                                                          V,                                  p          ~
                                                                                                  ""O
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  ........    s
                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                 '-<                     tTI
          (.;;:-.
                                                                                                                         z~
      ~                                                                                                                  VJ.
  g~   -
  ~ ~ [i.1]
  ~ t""":'-~~
  m  ~
  2      ' ~~
  0~ - !.
             ~
          ~
P32
P33
                 •        •       •      •     •     •   •         •
               ~         N       ~       ~   V'l     ~
                                         >
                         VJ. VJ. n n t:o n                   ~
               >
               p_.       ~       ~       0   ~
                                         ~   ,:j     n       e
                                         0   rl-
               1--'.                          ~              ~
               a q~ q~ µ ,.... .
               :::::s
               ,....
                   .             VJ.         ::::s
               rJl   ~                        rJl
               ~
                         (t)     ,:j
                                                             e
                         0       (t)
               ~         µ       0
                                 ,....
               1--' •             .                          ~
                         ::::s
                         ,....
               <                 1--'
               (t)                                           (/J
                         . ,....~ .
                   ,....
                   0 .
                           rJl
               VJ.       ~       rl-                         ~
               ,:j       ::::s
               (t)       rJl
               0                                             >
               1--' •                                        ~
               ~
               1--'
               ,.... .                                       ~
               rJl
               rl-
                                                             za
                                                             ~
                                                             r
~~~
                                                             ~
~lt]tN~.
~~ 1:
~~ ,·~.-..!:
~ '"'--·; ~
"'t]
  ~~
o[ ~

                                                                       P34
P35
P36
P37
P38
