Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting
Tuesday, March 15, 2022 – 6:30 p.m.

Minutes – UNAPPROVED

1. Meeting Logistics

Procedural: A. Zoom Video and/or Teleconference Access
Procedural: B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with
Disabilities

2. Call to Order, Roll Call, and Pledge of Allegiance

Procedural: A. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Talamantes called the meeting to order at 6:34 p.m. Board members present
via teleconference were Harold Fong, Heather Davis, and Karina Talamantes; other
Board members present in-person were Paul Keefer, Bina Lefkovitz, Joanne Ahola, and
Alfred Brown. Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the
Board; Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; Nick Schweizer, Associate
Superintendent: Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; Jerry Jones, Executive Director of
Technology; and Wende Watson, Executive Assistant.

Procedural: B. Pledge of Allegiance

Vice President Keefer lead the pledge.

3. Approval of Minutes

Action: A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of February 1, 2022

Motion by Trustee Heather Davis, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Not Present at Vote: Trustee Harold Fong

Action: B. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of February 15, 2022

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
4. Adoption of Agenda

Action: A. Adoption of Agenda

Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented.

Motion by Trustee Harold Fong, second by Trustee Heather Davis.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

5. Official Correspondence

Information: A. Official Correspondence

There was no official correspondence.

6. Visitor Presentations

Information: A. General Public

There were 11 public comments from Rachel Kattan, Kimmie Do, Tim Murphy, Kevin
Dobson, Shareza Buño, Vanessa T., Courtney Davis, Lisa Tramonte, Rose Braxton,
Andrew Dodkins, and Marcel Moore.

Information: B. Employee Organizations

There were no presentations from employee organizations.

7. Superintendent’s Report

Information: A. Superintendent's Report
Information: B. Recognition of the April 2022 Employees of the Month

Superintendent Gordon announced that Associate Superintendent Nick Schweizer
would introduce the classified employee of the month.

Brandis Wilson, Financial Analyst, Financial Services, was recognized and honored as
the classified employee of the month for April.

Superintendent Gordon announced that Director Marc Nigel would introduce the
certificated employee of the month.

Robert Garcia, Teacher at WC Riles Middle School CARE, Alternative Education
Department, was recognized and honored as the certificated employee of the month for
April.
Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

LOCAL DISTRICT UPDATES
Across all districts, COVID cases are trending down. Aside from Sacramento City USD
which is still enforcing the mask mandate, staff and students at the other districts are no
longer required to wear masks. A varying percentage of staff and students at the
various districts are continuing to wear masks while others choose to not wear them.

COVID-19 SUPPLIES FOR SCHOOLS
He provided a status update on the masks and COVID test kits we received from CDPH
(through FEMA funding) for distribution to districts, charters, and private schools. The
at-home testing kits are intended for use by staff and students during the spring break
period. We received Child KN95 masks and COVID-19 Home Test Kits. The quantity of
290,232 Test Kits received are intended for Districts, Charters, and Private School
students and staff. We have a distribution plan set to begin with the districts this week to
include Charter Schools in their boundaries. Once completed, we will arrange a pickup
window for Private Schools.

COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
During the week of March 7, students in our community school programs participated in
Student Exhibitions. Exhibitions had three parts: Black History Research Project,
sharing a chapter or their autobiography, and a reflection on their individual progress as
a student in the Community School program. Students were excited to share their
learning and reflect on their growth. Students in our Senior Extension program
responded to the war in the Ukraine by working with a local church and creating boxes
of canned goods. They also collected donations to be sent to families who have left
Ukraine and are living in camps. CARE students are excited about the completion of
their 916 Ink Anthology. They are planning for their “book release” in April. More details
to come!

EL CENTRO
Students are working diligently with our partner Northern California Construction
Training (NCCT) to prep for the SRBX design build. For the first time, judges will come
and observe students in the competition in El Centro between April 26 and April 29.
More details to come! Over the past month, nine students have passed their OSHA 10
certification as part of their work with NCCT. We are pleased to be supporting 10
graduates in the month of March. As a result, the probation and El Centro teams are
busy preparing for these momentous occasions with individual celebrations with the
families via Zoom. This is one example of our learning and expanded use of technology
as a result of Distance Learning during COVID.

SPECIAL EDUCATION UPDATE
The Infant Development Program will begin in-person services starting April 4.
In conjunction with our SCOE Week of Wellness, Daily Affirmation Practice took place
from 8:00-8:05 daily and Mindfulness Practice from 3:30-4:00 daily.
Throughout our Mod/Severe and ED programs, we are seeing an increase in students
returning from Independent Study to in-person learning.

DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION UPDATE
The DEI team is hosting meetings with each LEA in the county to learn more about their
equity work; learning about strengths and bright spots, challenges and opportunities,
and getting input on what they would like to see from SCOE in terms of leading this
effort county-wide. Conversations have been had with Twin Rivers, Elk Grove, Folsom-
Cordova, San Juan, and Robla. This information will help guide our external
partnerships and programming moving forward. The DEI team is also refining and
updating our DEI action plan which aligns goals, actions, and metrics to our equity
imperative. Finally, you’ll notice the DEI page on the SCOE website has been updated
to better reflect our work to date and where we are headed as an organization.

MOCK TRIAL/MOOT COURT
On March 8, we held the finals competition in-person at the Federal Courthouse and the
awards ceremony at the Holiday Inn downtown. Congratulations to Elk Grove High
School for winning the 2022 Mock Trial championship and to Sacramento Country Day
for placing second. The winning team advances to the California Mock Trial
Competition, which will be held via Zoom, March 20–22. Starting March 16, we will
begin hosting the Moot Court competition in the Conference Center. We have the full
approval of Sacramento County Public Health. To minimize the number of people, the
competition will not be open to the public. The county finals will be held at the State
Court of Appeals downtown on March 31 at 6:00 p.m.

HISTORY DAY
On March 12, more than 200 local students participated in Sacramento County History
Day, which was held at Inderkum High School. This year’s theme is "Debate &
Diplomacy: Successes, Failures, Consequences." This theme is so relevant given
today’s current events. The state History Day finals will be held at William Jessup
College in Rocklin May 6-8. Student Events Coordinator Craig Irish has been working
closely with the public health departments from both Sacramento and Placer counties
on the planning of the state event to minimize the number of people on site at any one
time. For any district that does not allow travel or for a student that can't attend because
they have COVID (or must quarantine), we will allow them to submit projects and
compete virtually. All other students would be in-person. Thanks to Craig Irish and his
amazing team for coordinating all these events.

SCOE TEACHER OF THE YEAR VIRTUAL RECEPTION
Please remember to mark your calendars for Thursday, March 24 when we recognize
the SCOE teachers who are being nominated for the 2023 SCOE Teacher of the Year.
Our virtual reception begins at 5:00 p.m. We will send you a Zoom link to the event as
we get closer.

WEEK OF WELLNESS
Last week, we kicked off our SCOE Week of Wellness. It was part of a campaign that
began with a mindfulness session. Every day during the week, our SCOE Wellness
Team hosted a series of interactive Zoom events. It was the culmination of a Wellness
Month where we sent out weekly emails full of resources and ideas to support staff in
our journey towards wellness. This is a campaign, and we will be hosting events
throughout the year. Many thanks to our Wellness Team for volunteering to take on this
effort.

KINGS/TEACHERS OF THE YEAR
On Sunday, March 20, the Sacramento Kings will be hosting their annual Educator
Appreciation Event at the Golden 1. During their game against the Phoenix Suns, they
will honor the Sacramento County Teachers of the Year. The game begins at 3:00 p.m.
Please let Wende know if you are interested in attending.

SLY PARK VISIT
On Friday, April 15, he will be visiting Sly Park along with Trustee Davis to tour the
campus and see firsthand all the facility improvements we have made over the last few
years. We will be arriving at around 1:00 p.m. that day, and he wanted to extend the
invitation to the entire Board to join us if you are available. Please let Wende know if
you are interested in attending.

8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

Action (Consent): A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

By approval of the consent agenda the following consent agenda items were approved:

Action (Consent): B. Accept Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

Information: C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students – Jacqueline
White/Michael Kast

Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendent, announced that 13 students will be
awarded diplomas: four students from Nathaniel S. Colley, Jr. High School; five
candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School; and four students from Elinor Lincoln
Hickey Senior Extension.

Action (Consent): D. Accept Donation to the Sacramento County Academic Decathlon -
Rachel Perry
Action (Consent): E. Declaration of Equipment Listed as Surplus Property and
Authorization to Dispose of Equipment Pursuant to Education Code (Technology) -
Jerry Jones

9. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

Action: A. Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve contracts.

Motion by Trustee Heather Davis, second by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Information: A. No Grant Applications/Service Contracts

11. New Business – Other

Action: A. Second Interim Financial Report for the 2021-2022 Fiscal Year - Nicolas
Schweizer

Action: B. 2021-2022 Budget Revision No. 2 - Nicolas Schweizer

Trustee Davis presented Items 11.A. and 11.B.

Trustee Keefer made a motion to approve the Second Interim Financial Report for the
2021-2022 Fiscal Year. Second by Trustee Ahola.

Trustee Keefer amended his motion to approve the Second Interim Financial Report for
the 2021-2022 Fiscal Year and the 2021-2022 Budget Revision No. 2. Second by
Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Action: C. Consideration and Adoption of Resolution No. 22-05 - Authorizing
Continuance of Teleconferenced Board Meetings - Teresa Stinson
Teresa Stinson, General Counsel, presented this item.

Trustee Fong made a motion to approve Resolution 22-05, and Trustee Lefkovitz
seconded.

President Talamantes called for any discussion from the group.

Trustee Keefer made a substitute motion to not approve Resolution 22-05. There was
no second.

Additional discussion took place and the Board voted on the original motion.

Motion by Trustee Harold Fong, second by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee
Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
No: Trustee Paul Keefer

Action: D. Notice of Award of A-G Completion Improvement Grant - Jacqueline White

Motion to approve.

Motion by Trustee Harold Fong, second by Trustee Heather Davis.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Information: E. Board Report - CalHOPE Social Emotional Learning - Brent Malicote

This report was presented by Assistant Superintendent of Educational Services Brent
Malicote. Mr. Malicote introduced Mai Xi Lee, Director of Social Emotional Learning,
who contributed to the presentation as well.

12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

Reports: A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola commented that she downloaded everyday SEL while listening to the
SEL Board report.

Trustee Brown – no report.

Trustee Davis – no report.

Trustee Fong commented that he attended the memorial service for Bill Meehan at
SCOE and was moved by the testimonials given at the service and about how many
lives were impacted by Mr. Meehan’s service.

Trustee Keefer commented that largest achievement gap in Sacramento County is for
African American students and Latino students. If those students are required to have a
vaccine, they will not be attending school as they are the largest group of unvaccinated
students in the county. Our greatest DEI work we can do right now is to draft a
resolution to not mandate vaccines for our students. The very students for which we are
trying to close the achievement gap will be the very students that will not be able to be
able to attend daily school. He requested support for a resolution not mandating
vaccines.

Trustee Lefkovitz remarked that she attended CSBA legislative day. While there she
met with Assemblymember McCarty and advocated for increasing the LCAP base.

Reports: B. Board President

President Talamantes announced that she is excited to meet her new nephew
tomorrow.

Reports: C. Committees

There were no committee reports.

13. Items for Distribution

Information: A. March/April Events
Information: B. March/April Site Visits

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

Information: A. April 5, 2022

Trustee Davis made a motion to reschedule the April 5, 2022 Board meeting to April 12,
2022. Second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Information: B. April 19, 2022

15. Adjournment

Action: A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to Adjourn Meeting
Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Joanne Ahola.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Meeting was adjourned at 8:55 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,


David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:
