Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting
Tuesday, April 19, 2022 – 6:30 p.m.

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Meeting Logistics

A. Zoom Video and/or Teleconference Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

2. Call to Order, Roll Call, and Pledge of Allegiance

A. Call to Order and Roll Call
President Talamantes called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m. Two Board members
participated via teleconference: Harold Fong and Heather Davis. Other Board members
present in-person were Paul Keefer, Bina Lefkovitz, Joanne Ahola, Karina Talamantes,
and Alfred Brown. Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary
to the Board; Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; Shanine Coats, Director; Jerry
Jones, Executive Director of Technology; and Wende Watson, Executive Assistant.
Other SCOE staff attended via Zoom: Nick Schweizer, Tim Herrera, Jacqueline White,
Brent Malicote, Channa Cook-Harvey, Darrien Johnson, Kristin Wright, Jillian Friend,
Michael Kast, Rachel Perry, Lindsay Paoli, and Darrien Johnson.
B. Pledge of Allegiance
Vice President Keefer lead the Pledge.

3. Approval of Minutes

Trustee Keefer moved to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of March
15, 2022. Trustee Brown seconded the motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

4. Adoption of Agenda

Trustee Davis moved to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented. Trustee
Lefkovitz seconded the motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola



04.19.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                            1
5. Official Correspondence

There was no official correspondence.

6. Visitor Presentations

A. General Public

There were no public comments from the general public.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no presentations from employee organizations.

7. Superintendent’s Report

Superintendent Gordon provided the following report:

COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
Students in our CARE program at Wilson C. Riles are looking forward to their 916 Ink
book release and distribution on April 26. 916 Ink is a long-time SCOE partner that
provides literacy tutoring for struggling readers, along with creative writing workshops
for English language instruction in our programs as well as in schools across the
county.

EL CENTRO
In partnership with Northern California Construction Training (NCCT), and as part of the
Sacramento Regional Builders Exchange (SRBX) design build, EL Centro students will
participate in the regional competition on the North Field of the Youth Detention facility
between April 26-29. SCOE has three teams participating this year. We also have
teams from our Colley and Hickey campuses participating. We are partnering with
Sacramento County Probation to host the 9th Annual Resource Fair for students
attending El Centro Jr./Sr. High. The event is May 11. We will have a number of
vendors on hand to help students who are looking for employment training or
educational opportunities upon their release.

SPECIAL EDUCATION UPDATE
Our Foundations Academy will hold its Spring graduation ceremonies in-person, at the
SCOE Conference Center on May 11 and 12 beginning at 10:30 a.m. each day.
Graduation for our Leo A. Palmiter graduates will be held on June 3 at 11:30 a.m.

DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION UPDATE
As our work in DEI as an organization continues, we are honored that guest speaker
Stephen Hinkle will be joining our April Learn at Lunch session, on April 20. Stephen is
an education consultant and disability rights advocate. He will share his experiences as
a student with autism, and he will discuss how educators can create more inclusive



04.19.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                                2
school environments for youth.

SEAL OF BILITERACY EVENT
On April 26, we will be hosting a virtual event to honor those high school students in
Sacramento County who have earned their Seal of Biliteracy. The seal is awarded to
high school seniors who have demonstrated English competency, plus competency in
another language, by meeting specific criteria. The event starts at 4:30 p.m. If you can
join us in congratulating our awardees, Jerry Jones can send you a link.

JOURNALISM INTERNSHIPS
We are proud to be sponsoring a new student program that recruits and trains high
school students to become education reporters. Participants in the Student Education
Reporter program will write about their schools and districts for the Sacramento School
Beat website, which will provide the articles to local news outlets for free. Participating
students will receive training and a stipend. If you know any aspiring high school
journalists, please have them visit our website or contact Jackie White for more
information.

SLY PARK KITCHEN VOLUNTEERS
When a SCOE program needs help our employees answer the call. As you are aware,
we have had staffing shortages in the Sly Park kitchen. While we work to fill positions
there, we put out a call for volunteers. Several employees have rolled up their sleeves
and volunteered in the kitchen to make sure visiting students – and staff onsite – get
their regular meals. Thanks to the many SCOE staffers who have volunteered. And
while we are on the topic of Sly Park, he would like to thank Trustees Davis and Brown
for joining him for a tour of Sly Park to see the upgrades we have made over the past
two years.

B. Recognition of the May 2022 Employees of the Month

Charlene (Char) Evangelista, Staff Secretary, Student Assessment and Program
Accountability (C-SAPA), was recognized as the classified employee of the month for
May.

Lisa Walker, Teacher, Special Education Department, was recognized as the
certificated employee of the month for May.

8.A. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

Trustee Fong moved to adopt the Consent Agenda. Trustee Ahola seconded the
motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola




04.19.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                                   3
By approval of the consent agenda the following consent agenda items were approved:

B. Accept Report on Personnel Transactions

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students

Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendent, announced that the following students will
be awarded a diploma: one student from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Jr./Sr. High School and
one student from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension.

9. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

No contracts were presented for approval.

10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget

Trustee Brown moved to approve. Trustee Keefer seconded the motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

By approval of Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts and Accept
Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other Expenditures
Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget the following item was
approved:

A. California Assessment System

11. New Business - Other

A. Adoption of Resolution No. 22-08 - Authorization for Temporary Interfund Transfer of
Funds - Nicolas Schweizer

Trustee Brown moved to approve. Trustee Davis seconded the motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

B. Format for Future Board Meetings

Adoption of Resolution No. 22-09 - Authorizing Continuance of Teleconferenced Board
Meetings Pursuant to Government Code Section 54953



04.19.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                               4
Trustee Ahola move to approve. Trustee Brown seconded the motion.

Superintendent Gordon called the vote for the motion to approve Resolution No. 22-09 -
Authorizing Teleconference for 30 days. The Board voted to approve the resolution to
allow for the previously scheduled April 25, 2022 SCOE Resiliency Scholarship
Committee Meeting to be held via Zoom. Future Board meetings will return to in-person
format effective with the May 3, 2022 Board Meeting.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

C. Board Report - AVID - Brent Malicote

Assistant Superintendent Brent Malicote introduced Lindsay Paoli, AVID Director, who
presented the AVID Board Report.

12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Brown suggested that each Board member should make a point to visit Sly
Park.

Trustee Lefkovitz - no report.

Trustee Keefer - no report.

Trustee Ahola - no report.

Trustee Davis - no report.

Trustee Fong - no report.

B. Board President

President Talamantes - no report.

C. Committees

There were no Committee reports.

13. Items for Distribution

There were no Items for distribution.




04.19.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                            5
14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. May 3, 2022
B. May 17, 2022

15. Adjournment

Trustee Keefer moved to adjourn the meeting. Trustee Ahola seconded the motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Meeting adjourned at 8:11 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




04.19.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                            6
