Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, October 22, 2024

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Brown called the regular meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Other Board members
present: Paul Keefer, Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Heather Davis, Harold Fong, Bina
Lefkovitz, and Vanessa Caigoy. SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing
Students Judith Marquez was also present.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Dr.
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; Acting General Counsel Elizabeth Linton;
Associate Superintendents Nicolas Schweizer and Brent Malicote; Assistant
Superintendents Michael Kast, Channa Pitt, and Jacqueline “Jackie” White; Executive
Directors Xanthi Soriano and Jerry Jones; Director Shanine Coats; and Executive
Assistant Malissa Kekahu.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Fong led the Pledge of Allegiance. President Brown read a land
acknowledgement.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

There was one public comment.

Erinn Leone, educator at Burbank High School, urged SCUSD, county school districts,
and SCOE to mandate a policy for accountability and restorative justice practices.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no reports from employee organizations.

3. Approval of Minutes




10.22.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        1
A. Motion to approve of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of September 10,
   2024 by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy
Abstain: Lefkovitz

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented by Trustee Fong,
   second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Lefkovitz

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

Students at Leo A. Palmiter participated in the California Secretary of State Mock
Election held by their Student Council Leadership on October 1. Their voices were
represented in the over 71,000 votes reported and counted in the California Secretary of
State Student Mock Election results. Students cast their votes for President/Vice
President, U.S. Senate, and California’s ten ballot measures that will appear on the
November 5, 2024, General Election ballot. The results from the Mock Election
indicated that Kamala D. Harris would be elected President, Adam B. Schiff would
represent the state in the U.S. Senate, and all ten ballot propositions would become
law.

Our Lake Tahoe Community College Graduation at El Centro went well on October 9.
We were pleased to learn that one of our graduates was accepted to University of
California, Davis. Our other graduate was accepted to California State University,
Sacramento. Thank you, President Brown for attending.

Also on October 9, we welcomed Tani Cantil-Sakauye, President and CEO of the Public
Policy Institute of California, and Former California Chief Justice, as our keynote
speaker for the Sacramento County School Boards Association dinner. The topic of the
evening was Civic Education. Thank you, President Brown and Trustees Caigoy,
Corona Sabeniano, and Lefkovitz for attending.

Last week, we celebrated “The Week of the School Administrator” and recognized all
our school administrators for their important contributions to successful pupil



10.22.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        2
achievement.

Also last week, we celebrated the annual opening of the Culinary Café at Leo A.
Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School. Thank you, President Brown and Trustees Caigoy and
Lefkovitz for attending.

On October 16, we applauded another five graduates at El Centro’s graduation
ceremony. Thank you, Assistant Superintendent Jackie White and our SCOE Schools
Team, for the great work you do to empower our students to learn and keep advancing.
Thank you to Trustee Lefkovitz for attending.

Fall is in the air and tonight, as you entered the Board Room, you may have seen the
“Dia de Los Muertos” or “Day of the Dead” altar created by our SCOE staff. Day of the
Dead combines the ancient Aztec custom of celebrating ancestors with All Souls' Day
and is celebrated on November 1 and 2. Day of the Dead is a joyful time when people
honor the deceased and celebrate their memory.

On October 26, 2024, we will honor our Sacramento Classified School Employees for
2024 and our new 2025 Teachers of the Year together at the Sacramento Republic FC
soccer game held at their Cal EXPO stadium. There will be a pre-game gathering in the
parking lot in front of the stadium’s main entrance. At approximately 6:30 p.m., we will
enter the stadium to recognize our honorees. The game will start at 7:00 p.m.

On November 7, 2024, we have scheduled a site visit to our Sly Park Environmental
Education Center program for which we have arranged transportation. We have an
afternoon full of activities planned, including lunch.

On November 14, 2024, in honor of National Native American Heritage Month, the
College and Career Team is hosting our first “Mentor MIX” of the year. A panel of
leaders from the Sacramento Native American community will be sharing their
experiences as related to the intersection and impact of the Arts and Mentoring on our
youth. The MIX begins at 5:30 p.m. at the WINN Center in Cosumnes River College.

The 2024 SCOE Season of Giving has officially started and there are many
opportunities for our staff and community to participate. Through December 10, 2024,
the College & Career Readiness Department as part of the Student Programs Team, in
collaboration with PRO Youth & Family Collective, is accepting donations for the
Holiday Meal Drive, which benefits SCOE students. Prior to winter break, holiday meals
will be provided to students and families from El Centro, Elinor L. Hickey, Nathaniel S.
Colley, Palmiter, Senior Extension, and the CARE program.

Frozen Turkeys for the Sacramento Food Bank & Family Services will be collected in
the Mather Room on Friday, November 15, 2024. Cash donations will also be accepted
and will be used toward the purchase of frozen turkeys.

On November 28, 2024, Team SCOE is joining with the Sacramento Food Bank &



10.22.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           3
Family Services for the 31st Annual Run to Feed the Hungry in downtown Sacramento.
Team SCOE participants will receive an upgraded shirt, access to the race day team
area, and a team photo.

The Gary K. Hart Resiliency Scholarship fund is part of our Season of Giving and
provides another opportunity to contribute. As you know, scholarship opportunities are
available to SCOE students who demonstrate extraordinary tenacity and perseverance
in overcoming personal obstacles as they complete their education and advance their
futures.

Also, during the Season of Giving, the El Centro Jr./Sr. High School Library will present
“Deck the Hall” where SCOE’s Court and Community Schools staff have thoughtfully
curated book collections based on student requests and made them available for
purchase for the El Centro library. The goal is to foster literacy that transcends
circumstances. These collections emphasize culturally reflective, responsive, and
relevant materials for system-involved youth.

Every year, Special Education and Early Learning staff nominate families within their
programs to receive items from their holiday wish lists for the Holiday Family Gift Drive.
The nominating staff then work with the departments to coordinate, pick up gifts, and
deliver them to the families.

SCOE will be collecting toys in our lobby for the Sacramento County Sheriff’s Toy
Project to fill stockings and provide food and gifts for families in need within our
Sacramento County community at large.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Lefkovitz

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. No Diplomas

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Lefkovitz




10.22.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                               4
9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

There were no grants.

10. New Business - Other

A. Approval of the 2023-2024 Budget Revision No. 4 and Unaudited Actuals Financial
   Report - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Schweizer presented the 2023-2024 Budget Revision No. 4
and Unaudited Actuals Financial Report.

Motion to approve the 2023-2024 Budget Revision No. 4 and Unaudited Actuals
Financial Report by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Lefkovitz

B. NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING and Adoption of Resolution No. 24-20 Establishing
   the 2024-2025 Appropriations Limit - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Schweizer presented this item.

The Public Hearing opened at 7:02 p.m.

There were no public comments.

The Public Hearing closed at 7:03 p.m.

Motion to adopt Resolution No. 24-20 - Establishing the 2024-2025 Appropriations Limit
by Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Lefkovitz

C. NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING Re-Appointment to Personnel Commission -
   Darrien Johnson

Darrien Johnson, Chief Administrator of Human Resources presented Agenda Item
10.C. Re-Appointment of Jan Mayer Ashley to the Personnel Commission.

There were no public comments.




10.22.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                       5
Motion to approve by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Lefkovitz

D. Board Report - SCOE Schools Data End of Year Report - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White and Program Manager Melissa Neuburger,
Ph.D. presented the SCOE Schools Data End of Year Report.

E. Board Report - Landscape Analysis: The State of Black Students in Our County - Dr.
   Channa Pitt

Dr. Channa Pitt, Assistant Superintendent of Educational Services, presented the
Landscape Analysis: The State of Black Students in Our County.

There were two public comments regarding the Landscape Analysis: The State of Black
Students in Our County.

Stan Jones, a parent from Folsom Cordova Unified School District spoke favorably in
regard to the social emotional learning focus in schools, specifically the work Dr. Pitt
has done in the Folsom Cordova Unified School District.

Linda White (via Zoom) expressed appreciation for the data provided and asked who is
part of a focus group. Assistant Superintendent stated that a focus group is considered
more than one person. Ms. White also shared that she looks forward to the final report.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Fong - no report

SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing Students Marquez proposed bringing
Narcotics Anonymous meetings to schools for rehabilitation and shared that the student
advisory committee that she sits on will begin advising students.

Trustee Davis - no report

Trustee Corona Sabeniano - no report

Trustee Caigoy stated that she attended the Palmiter Cafe Reopening and commended
the students for their work. Trustee Caigoy also requested that SCOE schools
implement the strategies that will be provided in the report from Dr. Pitt, requested a
resolution focused on this work, and thanked staff for their board reports.




10.22.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             6
Trustee Keefer commended staff on board reports and the importance of the great work
that SCOE is doing.

Trustee Lefkovitz stated her agreement with the comments of Trustee Caigoy and
Trustee Keefer. Trustee Lefkovitz stated that she and Trustee Fong have been involved
in the creation of a new group called the Association of California County Boards of
Education (ACCBE).

B. Board President

President Brown did not provide a report.

C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution

A. October Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. November 12, 2024 and December 10, 2024

14. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Lefkovitz

The meeting was adjourned at 8:48 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:.




10.22.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                      7
