NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING and AGENDA - Sacramento County Committee on
School District Organization - Center Joint Unified School District, Roseville City
School District, and Roseville Joint Union High School District ***REVISED***

Tuesday, November 14, 2023 at 5:30 p.m.

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

Committee Chair Bina Lefkovitz called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m. at the David P.
Meaney Education Center at 10474 Mather Boulevard in Mather. Other Committee
Members present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong (arrived via
Zoom at 5:36 p.m.), Heather Davis (arrived at 5:34 p.m.), Al Brown (arrived at 5:35
p.m.), and Joanne Ahola.

Committee Chair Lefkovitz read the land acknowledgement.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Committee Member Ahola led the Pledge of Allegiance.

E. Notice of Public Hearing - County Committee Consideration of the Approval or
Disapproval of the Proposed Transfer of Territory from Center Joint Unified School
District to Roseville City School District and Roseville Joint Union High School District
and Issuance of Findings and Tentative Conclusions

2. Visitor Presentations

A. General Public Comments

There were no public comments.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of the Minutes of the County Committee Meeting of August 15, 2023

Motion to approve the minutes of the County Committee Meeting of August 15, 2023, by
Committee Member Keefer, second by Committee Member Ahola.




11.14.23 County Committee Meeting Minutes                                                   1
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Committee Members Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis
Not Present at Vote: Committee Members Fong, Brown, Ahola

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Adoption of Agenda

Motion to adopt the agenda by Committee Member Ahola, second by Committee
Member Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Committee Members Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Not Present at Vote: Committee Member Fong

5. NEW BUSINESS

A. Public Hearing and Action Regarding Petition to Transfer Territory from Center Joint
   Unified School District to the Roseville City and Roseville Joint Union High School
   Districts

Associate General Counsel Barbara Liebert introduced the agenda item regarding
Petition to Transfer Territory from Center Joint Unified School District to the Roseville
City and Roseville Joint Union High School Districts.

The following parties were invited to address the Sacramento County Committee:

Chief Petitioner Melissa Campbell spoke in support of the transfer.

Superintendent Loehr from Center Joint Unified School District (CJUSD) yielded his
time to attorney David A. Soldani of Atkinson, Andelson, Loya, Ruud, and Romo and
consultant, Shin Green of Eastshore Consulting LLC to speak on behalf of the district in
opposition to the transfer.

Superintendent Derk Garcia spoke on behalf of Roseville City School District (RCSD) in
opposition to the transfer.

No one was present to speak from the Roseville Joint Unified School District (RJUSD).

Committee Chair Lefkovitz opened the Public Hearing at 5:57 p.m.

There were no public comments.

Committee Chair Lefkovitz closed the Public Hearing at 5:57 p.m.

The County Committee asked questions which were responded by the petitioner, the



11.14.23 County Committee Meeting Minutes                                                   2
representatives from the CJUSD (Superintendent, Attorney, Consultant) and RCSD
(Superintendent), as well as Jonathan Edwards and Robert Shemwell from Government
Financial Strategies who joined the meeting via Zoom.

Committee Member Ahola moved for the County Committee to find that each of the
statutory criteria found in Education Code, section 35753, are substantially met, second
by Committee Member Davis.

Motion did not pass.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Committee Members Davis, Ahola
No: Committee Members Keefer, Fong, Corona Sabeniano, Brown, Lefkovitz

Committee Member Corona Sabeniano moved for the County Committee to find that the
statutory criteria found in Education Code, section 35753, are not substantially met,
specifically numbers 2, 4, 6, 8, and 9; second by Committee Member Keefer.

Discussion followed regarding the specific criteria which were not met. A vote was not
taken.

An amended motion was made by Committee Member Corona Sabeniano that the
County Committee find that the statutory criteria found in Education Code, section
35753, are not substantially met, specifically numbers 2, 4, 6, 8, and 9:

   (2) The school districts are each organized on the basis of a substantial community
   identity.

   (4) The reorganization of the school districts will preserve each affected district’s
   ability to educate pupils in an integrated environment and will not promote racial or
   ethnic discrimination or segregation.

   (6) The proposed reorganization will continue to promote sound education
   performance and will not significantly disrupt the educational programs in the
   affected districts.

   (8) The proposed reorganization is primarily designed for purposes other than to
   significantly increase property values.

   (9) The proposed reorganization will continue to promote sound fiscal management
   and not cause a substantial negative effect on the fiscal status of the affected
   district.

Committee Member Keefer seconded the motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried


11.14.23 County Committee Meeting Minutes                                                  3
Yes: Committee Members Keefer, Fong, Corona Sabeniano, Brown, Lefkovitz
No: Committee Members Davis, Ahola

Committee Member Corona Sabeniano moved for the County Committee to find that the
petition to transfer territory is tentatively disapproved because it does not substantially
meet the criteria found in Education Code section 35753; second by Committee
Member Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Committee Members Keefer, Fong, Corona Sabeniano, Brown, Lefkovitz
No: Committee Members Davis, Ahola

Committee Member Corona Sabeniano moved for the County Committee to adopt the
resolution reflecting the actions taken this evening as the County Committee’s findings
and tentative conclusions and to direct the Superintendent to transmit the findings to
Placer County Office of Education; second by Committee Member Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Committee Members Keefer, Fong, Corona Sabeniano, Brown, Lefkovitz
No: Committee Members Davis, Ahola

6. ADJOURNMENT

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Committee Member Keefer moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Committee
Member Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Committee Members Keefer, Fong, Corona Sabeniano, Brown, Lefkovitz, Davis,
Ahola

The meeting was adjourned at 6:43 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,


David W. Gordon
Secretary to the County Committee

Date approved:




11.14.23 County Committee Meeting Minutes                                                 4
