Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
Tuesday, July 11, 2023 – 6:30 P.M.

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the regular meeting to order at 6:31 p.m. Other Board members
present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Alfred Brown, Harold Fong (via Zoom) (arrived at
6:39 p.m.), Heather Davis, Bina Lefkovitz, and Joanne Ahola.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer;
Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White; Executive Directors Michael Kast, Xanthi
Soriano, and Jerry Jones; and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Brown led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Organization of the Board of Education for 2023-2024

President Keefer asked if there were any public comment prior to the elections. There
were no public comments.

A. Election of President

Trustee Brown nominated Trustee Bina Lefkovitz for Board President, second by
Trustee Davis.

There were no additional nominations.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Not Present at Vote: Trustee Fong

B. Election of Vice President
Trustee Lefkovitz nominated Trustee Brown for Board Vice President, second by
Trustee Keefer.




07.11.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          1
There were no additional nominations.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Not Present at Vote: Trustee Fong

3. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

The following individuals made public comments regarding employee wages: Wendy
Roberts, Sean Frame, and Terryl Wheat.

B. Employee Organizations

Tara Degg, President of CSEA Chapter 480, provided an update on negotiations.

4. Approval of Minutes

A. Motion by Trustee Brown to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of
   May 16, 2023, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

5. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented by Trustee Ahola,
   second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

6. Official Correspondence

A. No Official Correspondence

7. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

PREPARING STUDENTS
The Gary K. Hart Resiliency Scholarship Committee met in May to review scholarship
applications. Six scholarships were awarded including one for our recent graduate from
El Centro Jr./Sr. High School, who will be attending California State University,
Sacramento. The committee voted to have an open application period (rolling deadline)



07.11.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           2
which will allow Sacramento County Office of Education (SCOE) students, who
graduate throughout the year, to apply at any time. Currently, we have received an
additional four applications that will be reviewed at a future committee meeting.

BUILDING PARTNERSHIPS
Our Sacramento County Reads! Literacy Initiative is in its final planning phase. Our
Curriculum and Instruction team gathered input from the SCOE Leadership team this
past spring, and in June launched an internal multi-departmental SCOE advisory team
to contribute to the design, rollout, and facilitation of our county-wide literacy initiative.
Next month, we plan to convene Local Educational Agency (LEA) superintendents to
gather their input on our initial design, find ways to connect Sac Reads to their existing
literacy work, identify potential barriers and solutions, and make connections to
community partners that we should lean on to deepen and scale the work. Over the
coming months, we will support LEAs in identifying a team (including site, district, and
coaching staff), scheduling a 5-part professional learning series, and continuing to
engage other SCOE departments, our own SCOE schools, and community partners in a
collaborative and intensive focus on system-wide literacy development.

In late June, SCOE’s Capital Adult Education Regional Consortium (CAERC) supported
more than 2,200 Afghan Refugees and new arrivals by participating in the Afghan
Support Center four-day event held at the SAFE Credit Union Convention Center.
Attendees had access to public assistance and affordable housing information, and
received legal counsel, learned about healthcare options, and received health checks
and vaccines on-site. Our team happily provided an opportunity for Afghans to talk to
CAERC members about educational opportunities, support services, and workforce
opportunities.

LEADERSHIP
This summer, Jared Amalong and his team kicked-off the Summer of Computer Science
program, which is a dynamic computer science educator professional development
program that will continue into the next school year. It has an enrollment of more than
850 teachers, counselors, school leaders, and paraprofessionals. Four of the statewide
Summer of CS workshops were hosted at SCOE, and 43 workshops will be provided in
total. Launched as a pilot in 2019 with SCOE, UCLA, and CSforCA, the program has
grown rapidly. This past year, CSforCA was awarded the California Educator Workforce
Investment Grant (EWIG), which helped expand Summer of CS into a more robust and
ongoing “Seasons of CS” professional learning program across California’s statewide
system of support. Looking forward, in 2024, the Summer of CS will be scaled to
support an additional 1,050 educators.

Jumping to leadership in mathematics, the SCOE math team is in the process of
delivering three 5-Day Summer Institutes for TK-12 math teachers driven by the work of
Peter Liljedahl and working to build thinking classrooms. All three weeks are full with
more than 180 participants and a waitlist for each week. In collaboration with the SCOE
Social and Emotional Learning (SEL) team, participants explore how to integrate the
three SEL Signature Practices into their routines, and how they can help teachers fine-



07.11.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                               3
tune their thinking classroom by enhancing student belonging and motivation. In
partnership with local school districts and Expanded Learning programs, participants
are also provided the opportunity to implement some of the Building Thinking
Classroom practices with students during summer school sessions before returning to
their classrooms in the Fall.

He would like to introduce some of our newest leadership team members responsible
for Community Schools and College and Career Readiness. Starting this week, on
Assistant Superintendent White’s team, is Director Jane Collier Ross, who will oversee
College and Career Readiness. Beginning in August, on Executive Director Channa
Cook’s team, Director Navdeep Purewal will be leading our Community Schools
Initiative.

UPCOMING EVENTS
On July 26, 2023, at 6:00 p.m., SCOE, My Brother’s Keeper, Sierra Health Foundation,
and MENTOR California will be hosting an artist and mentor panel at the SCOE
Conference Center. 150 attendees are expected to discuss how youth need adult
protective relationships, like formalized mentoring, to succeed. This panel speaks to
how schools can combine mentors and artists to create places for young people to grow
and share their experiences through the Arts and that these mentoring relationships can
become an integral part of mental wellness and youth success in our community.

The Annual Employee Recognition Day will be held on August 11, 2023. This year’s
theme is “SCOE - The Many Hats We Wear”. We will begin the day with professional
learning, a celebration of service, and department breakout sessions at designated
locations throughout DPMEC, Cy Young, and the Rancho Cordova City Hall from 9:30
a.m. through 11:30 a.m. We will reconvene as a group at the SCOE Conference Center
at 12:00 p.m. to enjoy a day of community with BBQ and activities. The event will
conclude with a virtual video that highlights SCOE employees and their many
contributions.

The 2024 Sacramento County Teacher of the Year Awards Banquet will be held on
August 25, 2023, at the Hilton Arden-West hotel in Sacramento. He is pleased to
announce that we will be honoring 15 Teachers of the Year throughout Sacramento
County Districts. We will also be announcing the two Teachers that will be moving
forward as the Sacramento County Teachers of the Year! SCOE has been recognizing
the invaluable works of our educators since 1974 and is proud to continue to celebrate
the teaching profession and the outstanding teachers in our community. All 15 District
Teachers of the Year will be celebrated and recognized at future events with the
Sacramento Kings, Sacramento River Cats, and the Sacramento Republic.

8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried



07.11.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           4
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. No Diplomas

D. Declaration of Equipment Listed as Surplus Property and Authorization to Dispose of
Equipment Pursuant to Education Code - Jerry Jones

9. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

Sean Frame provided a public comment regarding the contracts for paraeducators and
special education staffing.

Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
No: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Fong

10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget -
David W. Gordon

Motion to approve grant applications/service contracts and accept funding if awarded;
and approval of contracts, positions, and other expenditures associated with the grants
as outlined in the proposed budget by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

A. Improve and Maximize Programs so All Children Thrive (IMPACT) - Brent Malicote

B. Youth Mental Health First Aid and Bullying Prevention Program Training Grant -
Brent Malicote

C. California Preschool Instructional Network - Brent Malicote

D. California Preschool Instructional Network - Region 3 - Brent Malicote

E. Seeds of Partnership - Michael Kast

11. New Business - Other



07.11.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            5
A. Capital College & Career Academy Countywide Charter Pre-Opening Status Update
- Teresa Stinson

Associate Counsel Teresa Stinson introduced Consultant Sue Stickel who presented
SCOE's update on the pre-opening status of Capital College & Career Academy
Countywide Charter (CCCA).

Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer presented the updated financial report for
CCCA.

The Board provided comments and asked questions about the information provided by
Sue Stickel and Nicolas Schweizer. Kevin Dobson, founder and Director of Capital
College & Career Academy, was present to answer questions.

Trustee Keefer moved to approve CCCA’s revised budget so that the charter school
may open and operate for the 2023-2024 school year as per the specifications outlined
in the Memorandum of Understanding, Trustee Ahola seconded the motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

B. State Budget Act Board Report - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Schweizer presented the State Budget Act Board Report.

No Board action required.

12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola thanked Trustee Keefer for his service as President and offered
congratulations to newly elected President Lefkovitz and Vice President Brown.

Trustee Brown extended appreciation to Trustee Keefer for his levity and service as
Board President.

Trustee Keefer thanked the Board for their support while serving as President and
congratulated the newly elected President and Vice President.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano offered congratulations to newly elected President Lefkovitz
and Vice President Brown, as well as thanked Trustees Keefer and Davis for their
service.




07.11.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          6
Trustee Davis offered congratulations to the newly elected Board Officers and stated
that she enjoyed sitting on the Executive Committee and the opportunity it provided for
learning.

Trustee Fong - no report.

B. Board President

President Lefkovitz thanked Trustee Davis for her service as Vice President. She also
asked the Board to send Superintendent Gordon their ideas for Board presentations for
2023-2024 and to let Superintendent Gordon know if you have a Committee preference.
She also asked fellow Board members to help close future meetings with an optimistic
closure. President Keefer will be tonight's closer.

President Keefer read a poem written by an El Centro Student - To My Future Self.

C. Committees

13. Items for Distribution

A. July/August Events and Site Visits

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. August 15, 2023

15. Adjournment

A. Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

The meeting adjourned at 8:33 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




07.11.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            7
