1/6/22, 2:29 PM                                                  BoardDocs® Plus


SACRAMENTO COUNTY COMMITTEE ON SCHOOL DISTRICT ORGANIZATION

Tuesday, December 14, 2021

MINUTES – Unapproved
1. CALL TO ORDER AND ROLL CALL

Meeting called to order at 8:04 PM

Members present: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the County Committee; Nancy
Herota, Deputy Superintendent; Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; Nicolas Schweizer, Associate
Superintendent; Coleen Johnson and Darrien Slider-Johnson,Chief Administrators; Jerry Jones,
Executive Director; Shanine Coats, Director; other staff; and Wende Watson, Executive Assistant.
Other staff present via teleconference were Brent Malicote and Jacqueline White, Assistant
Superintendents; Michael Kast, Channa Cook-Harvey, Kristin Wright, and Rachel Perry, Executive
Directors; and Tim Herrera, Director.
2. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

The pledge was recited during the Regular Board Meeting, which was held immediately prior to this
meeting.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

No Approval of Minutes

4. ADOPTION OF AGENDA

Motion by Trustee Heather Davis, second by Trustee Joanne Ahola.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

5. VISITOR PRESENTATIONS

There were no requests for presentations from the General Public.

5. NEW BUSINESS

Action: A. REVISED Public Hearing and Adjustment of Sacramento County Board of Education
Trustee Areas Based Upon 2020 Census - Teresa Stinson

Teresa Stinson, General Counsel, provided information on this item. Andrew Rich provided a
presentation on the trustee area redistricting history and process and presented the various map
scenario options.

Chair Talamantes opened the Public Hearing at 8:32 p.m.

A public comment was provided by the following: Beau Reynolds



https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                      1/2
1/6/22, 2:29 PM                                                  BoardDocs® Plus

Chair Talamantes closed the Public Hearing at 8:35 p.m.

The Board deliberated and discussed the different trustee area map scenarios, each of which were
previously published on SCOE’s public website.

Trustee Davis moved and Trustee Ahola seconded the motion to adopt scenario 4 as the redistricting
plan for the Sacramento County Board of Education’s trustee area boundaries, and to adopt Resolution
No. CC-21-03 accordingly.

Member Fong moved to postpone the motion. It was not seconded.

Motion by Trustee Heather Davis, second by Trustee Joanne Ahola.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Heather Davis,
Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
No: Trustee Harold Fong

6. ADJOURNMENT

Motion to Adjourn Meeting

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Meeting adjourned 8:51 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,


David W. Gordon
Secretary to the County Committee

Date approved:




https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                        2/2
