Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda

Tuesday, December 14, 2021 at 5:00 p.m.
MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. CALL TO ORDER AND ROLL CALL

Meeting called to order at 5:02 PM

Members present: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong (via Zoom), Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Nancy Herota, Deputy
Superintendent; Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; Nicolas Schweizer, Associate Superintendent;
Coleen Johnson and Darrien Slider-Johnson, Chief Administrators; Jerry Jones, Executive Director;
Shanine Coats and Tim Herrera, Directors; Monica Eisel, facilitator; other staff; and Wende Watson,
Executive Assistant.

Other staff present via teleconference were Brent Malicote and Jacqueline White, Assistant
Superintendents; and Michael Kast, Channa Cook-Harvey, Kristin Wright, and Rachel Perry,
ExecutiveDirectors.

2. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

Trustee Brown led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3. Approval of Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of October 19, 2021

Motion by Trustee Alfred Brown, second by Trustee Heather Davis.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Heather Davis,
Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Not Present at Vote: Trustee Harold Fong

4. Adoption of Agenda

Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented.

Motion by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Joanne Ahola.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Heather Davis,
Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Not Present at Vote: Trustee Harold Fong

5. Official Correspondence

No Official Correspondence

6. Visitor Presentations

Public comments were provided by the following: Quintin Levesque, Gabrielle, Blanca, and Andrea
Hedstrom. Amy Scherschligt submitted a written public comment which was also shared with the Board.

There were no requests for presentations from Employee Organizations.

7. Superintendent’s Report

                                                                                                      1/7
Amanda Wirz, School Secretary, Special Education Department, Dry Creek Elementary School, was
recognized and honored as the classified employee of the month for January.

Irene Geivett, Vision Specialist, Special Education Department, Dry Creek Elementary School, was
recognized and honored as the certificated employee of the month for January.

Superintendent Gordon provided the following report:

SENIOR EXTENSION GOLDEN BELL
On December 2, at the California School Boards Association Conference in San Diego, the CSBA
recognized our innovative Senior Extension Program with a prestigious Golden Bell Award. We also
received an Apple Award for excellent County Office programs. Several of our Board members joined
him, Principal Craig Bradford, and Assistant Superintendent Jackie White to proudly accept the honor.
Senior Extension gives young people – ages 17 to 21 – more time to earn high school diplomas and
re-engages students in jeopardy of dropping out of high school. Congratulations to Principal Bradford
and the entire Senior Extension team!

LOCAL DISTRICT UPDATES
Districts report that COVID case rates remain low among students and staff, indicating that the various
health and safety measures in place are effective.

COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
All Court and Community School programs are running smoothly. Staff is meeting with districts to ensure
our programming meets the changing needs of districts and students. Staff will be distributing
sweatshirts and goodie bags to students as the result of donations from the local community.

EL CENTRO
We are looking forward to the visit with President Talamantes December 17th. We are partnering with
Twin Rivers Unified and Stanford University on a project called “Lifting the Bar.” Students who are
leaving El Centro and returning to their home district of Twin Rivers will be matched with mentors who
work for the district. Stanford will facilitate the mentor training. An interesting part of this program is that
the students must seek out potential mentors and ask them for their help. The goal is to connect
students with adults in their school community as a strategy for reducing recidivism.

SPECIAL EDUCATION UPDATE
Our Infant Development Team will begin offering in-person services to families as of January 31st.
Sharon Botkin, Area Principal for our Infant Development/Preschool programs, will retire December 17
and Randy Olson, Area Principal, will assume those duties. Kathy Johnson, retiree, has returned to
SCOE on a temporary basis to take on area principal duties. Interviews are scheduled for filling in
vacant Area Principal position permanently. All other Special Education programs are doing well.

STUDENT MENTAL HEALTH AND WELLNESS PLANNING PROCESS
On November 30, he attended the launch of a 10-year plan to address student mental health and
wellness in Sacramento County. We are partnering with Sacramento County Behavioral Health Services
in this collaborative approach to improving student mental health and student outcomes. We had over
100 participants in the virtual meeting which included elected officials – Trustee Lefkovitz, Supervisor
Patrick Kennedy, Senator Richard Pan, school district partners, community and public agency
representatives, and youth from our community. The plan will build on previous and ongoing
collaborative efforts, including our School Based Mental Health and Wellness Partnership and the Safe




                                                                                                               2/7
Zone Squad, and the previous 10-year plan. The Glen-Price Group, a public and non-profit sector
consulting firm, has been engaged to facilitate the planning process.

SCOE GRADUATIONS
Today, we hosted a virtual graduation for 99 of our Senior Extension and Court and Community School
students on the SCOE YouTube channel. Motivational speaker Kevin Bracey provided an outstanding
and energetic keynote address. On December 9, we hosted a ceremony honoring two students who
graduated from our Foundations Academy Program. Many thanks to the principals who organized the
virtual events.

RESILIENCY SCHOLARSHIP
SCOE Resiliency Scholarship application process will be available again in 2022. The Resiliency
Scholarship is for SCOE school graduates who have demonstrated tenacity and perseverance in
overcoming adverse challenges to complete their education and advance their futures. Our Board
launched this scholarship last year to help students better afford a four-year college program,
community college, or career technical training. Last year, we awarded 12 students each a $1,000
scholarship. For more information about this program, please contact Cal-SOAP Director Guadalupe
Delgado.

SLY PARK RE-OPENING PLAN
After being closed for nearly two years because of COVID restrictions, Sly Park will reopen to students
after the New Year. We have the approval of both the Sacramento County and El Dorado County Health
Departments to allow Sly Park to accept students once again for overnight stays. We will have strict
health and safety procedures in place to protect students, guests, and our staff. When the campus
reopens, it will run first at 50-percent and then 80-percent of capacity to provide the necessary space for
guests and Sly Park staff. He can’t thank our Sly Park team enough for everything they’ve done during
the closure. They have been incredibly resilient, adaptable, and create.

COVID TESTS FOR STAFF/FAMILIES
Through a partnership with Sacramento County Public Health, we will be providing SCOE students and
staff members with free at-Home COVID-19 test kits, courtesy of the California Department of Public
Health. The iHealth At-Home Test Kits will be available for students and staff prior to the winter break
and are to be conducted before returning from the break. For staff working in schools, kits will be
delivered to the sites and available for pick-up prior to the break. The kits have been prioritized for
students and staff members at SCOE schools. All other staff members can pick up a test kit – while
supplies lasts – on Friday, December 17th, at the front desk of the Meaney Center.

SCOE OFFICES CLOSED
SCOE offices and programs will be closed from December 23 to January 2 for the Winter break.

PRESIDENT TALAMANTES: CCBE TREASURER
He congratulated Board President Talamantes on being elected to serve as Treasurer for the California
County Board of Education – CCBE – representing Region 6.

THANK YOU: COLEEN JOHNSON
Personnel Chief Administrator Coleen Johnson is retiring, and tonight is her last Board meeting. He
took an opportunity to thank Coleen for her extraordinary service. She has led SCOE and our
Personnel Department through some very difficult times and is responsible for some much innovative
work. Congratulations on your retirement, Coleen, we will miss you very much.




                                                                                                         3/7
8. New Business – Adoption of Consent Agenda
Action (Consent): A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items – David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Action (Consent): B. Report on Personnel Transactions – Coleen Johnson

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Information: C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students – Jacqueline
White/MichaelKast

Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendent, announced that the following students will be awarded a
diploma: Cameron Antoine Pierre from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. Senior Extension; Cassandra Gabriella
Brooks, Alejandro Castro Rodriguez, Ariana Jasmin Guillen Correa, Aleyziah Monique Rose Jackson,
and Michael Chad Luther from Cordova Lane Senior Extension; three candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr.
High School; Bilal Alkhodair, Abdul Malik Ghassan Altosh, Ahmad Mohammad Dawara, Mason Ray
Garrett, Daniel Paul Ramirez, David Emmanuel Salazar, and Angelina Monique Sims from Elinor Lincoln
Hickey Senior Extension; and Cree A'Shin Ford from Natomas PROMISE Program.

9. New Business – Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

Action: A. Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve Contracts.

Motion by Trustee Heather Davis, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Heather Davis,
Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Not Present at Vote: Trustee Harold Fong

10. New Business – Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts and Accept
Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other Expenditures Associated
with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget – David W. Gordon

Action: A. Local Child Care Development Planning Council Grant – Brent Malicote
Action: B. Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS) Phase 2B Coaching Grant – Brent Malicote

Motion by Trustee Joanne Ahola, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Heather Davis,
Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Not Present at Vote: Trustee Harold Fong

                                                                                                      4/7
11. New Business – Other
Discussion, Information: A. Fortune Countywide Charter School Annual Report – Teresa Stinson

Nancy Brownell presented an Annual Oversight Report to the Board.

Updates on the Fortune Countywide Charter were provided by Fortune representatives including
Margaret Fortune (President/CEO), Dominic Zarecki (Director of Data, Analytics, and Strategy), Michelle
Grace (Chief Operating Officer), and Wesley Pepper (Chief Academic Officer). Ms. Fortune concluded
by thanking various SCOE staff members for their support.

Action: B. Adoption of Resolution No. 21-16 – Calling for Election of Trustees to the
Sacramento County Board of Education on June 7, 2022 – Teresa Stinson

Teresa Stinson, General Counsel, presented this item.

The Board agreed to a candidate’s statement of qualifications of 400 words.

Motion to approve Resolution 21-16.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Action, Discussion: C. Consideration and Adoption of Resolution 21-17 – Authorizing
Continuance of Teleconferenced Board Meetings – Teresa Stinson

Ms. Stinson presented this item.

Motion to approve.

Motion by Trustee Joanne Ahola, second by Trustee Paul Keefer.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Action: D. Consideration and Approval of Resolution No. 21-18 – Authorizing Five
Percent Increase in Board Member Compensation – Teresa Stinson

Ms. Stinson presented this item.
Motion to approve Resolution No. 21-18.
Motion by Trustee Heather Davis, second by Trustee Joanne Ahola.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Action: E. Appointment to the Personnel Commission – Coleen Johnson
Coleen Johnson, Chief Administrator, presented this item to appoint Sherry Lack to the Personnel
Commission.

Motion to approve.

Motion by Trustee Heather Davis, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
                                                                                                     5/7
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Action: F. 2021-2022 Budget Revision No. 1 – Nicolas Schweizer

Trustee Heather Davis provided information on this item.

Action: G. Approval of the First Interim Financial Report for the 2021-2022 Fiscal Year – Nicolas
Schweizer

Trustee Heather Davis provided information on this item.

A motion was made to approve 11F and 11G together.

Motion by Trustee Alfred Brown, second by Trustee Joanne Ahola.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Action: H. Educator Effectiveness Block Grant – Jacqueline White

Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendent, provided information on this item.

Motion to approve the plan for the expenditure of EducatorEffectiveness Block Grant funds to be
expended between 2021-2022 and 2025-2026.

Motion by Trustee Heather Davis, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Action, Discussion: I. Vision, Mission, and Goals – David W. Gordon

Monica Eisel, Facilitator, presented this item to the Board.

Motion to approve the proposed revision to the Mission, Vision, and Goals with some minor
modifications.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Joanne Ahola.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Heather Davis,
Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
No: Trustee Harold Fong

12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

Reports: A. Board Members
Trustee Davis – no report.

Trustee Keefer expressed holiday wishes to all and commented that he is looking forward to the
Executive Committee on December 15.

Trustee Lefkovitz requested an update on student mental health status in the districts as a result of
COVID. She also commented that CSBA Conference was enjoyable and expressed holiday wishes.

                                                                                                        6/7
Trustee Brown wished everyone a Merry Christmas. He shared Life is Short speech, "Where the rubber
meets the road is where the teacher meets the student."

Trustee Ahola expressed holiday wishes to all.

Trustee Fong expressed holiday wishes to all. He asked that an overview of what other districts are
doing to overcome learning loss be provided at a future meeting.

Reports: B. Board President

President Talamantes expressed holiday wishes. She also commented that the CSBA conference was
great and that it was nice getting to know her colleagues better. She also mentioned that she was
elected as Treasurer for the California County Board of Education – CCBE – representing Region 6.

Reports: C. Committees

There were no committee reports.

13. Items for Distribution – None

Information: A. December/January Events
Information: B. December/January Site Visits

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

Information: A. January 11, 2022
Information: B. February 1, 2022

15. Adjournment

Motion to Adjourn Meeting.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Joanne Ahola.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Meeting adjourned at 7:54 p.m.
Respectively submitted,


David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




                                                                                                      7/7
