           "
       l          I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   lfiu~
  ADAM A. HOUSE
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


     Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                            Thursday, January 8, 2026 - 6:00 p.m.
John Costa                                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                               10545 Armstrong Avenue, Suite 200
Division 9
                                                  Boardroom - Second Floor
                                                      Mather, California
Robert Webber
Board Vice President                                          &
Division 3                                           Remotely Via Zoom
                                                 Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Brian Rice
Board Secretary
                                                    Passcode: metro2101
Division 7                                Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
                                                   ~ Passcode: 838771796 #
Cinthia Saylors          https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ 1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d 1VWZz09
Board Member
Division 1


Grant Goold            The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Board Member               and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.
Division 2


Ted Wood               The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Board Member
Division 4             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
Shawn Stark            Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 5
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
D'Elman Clark
Board Member           reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
Division 6             advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
                       accommodations:
Board Member
Division 8                                                    Marni Rittburg
                                                               Board Clerk
                                                              (916) 859-4305
                                                     rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                 THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2026


►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video-
streamed at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov. Today's meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
January 12, 2026, and again at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, January 14, 2026, on Metro
Cable Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand
at you tube.com/metrocable 14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the
presiding officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the
interest of time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations.
Speakers' comments will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures,
members of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting
record must be present or have a representative present to read their comments during
the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral
of issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly
approval, declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent
Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion
and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                    Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                             6
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meetings of October 9, 2025 and October 23, 2025.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2026


2.   Request for Exception to Formal Solicitation Process - Disclosure of    15
     Material Expenditure to California Safety Training
     Recommendation: Approve the final payment of $19,370 to California Safety
     Training for ACLS additional training days and students.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.   25 Years of Service to Director Jones                                                                              **
     (Chief House)
     Recommendation: Receive the presentation.

ACTION ITEMS:
1.   Purchase Approval - Ten (10) Chevrolet Tahoes                                                                      21
     (Shea Pursell, Fleet Manager)
     Recommendation: Approve the Purchase of ten (10) Chevrolet Tahoes from
     National Auto Fleet Group, utilizing Sourcewell contract #091521-NAF.

REPORTS:
1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                (President Costa)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -              (Chief House)

            OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

            ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica) - No Report

            SUPPORT & EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy
            Chief Mitchell) - No Report

3.   SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT- (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
     522 Vice President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

     A.     Executive Committee - (President Costa)
            Next Meeting : January 8, 2026, at 5:30 p.m.

     B.     Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Fiorica) - No Report
            Next Meeting: January 13, 2026, at 9:00 a.m.
            SRFECC Annex - 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite 200, Sacramento
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2026


      C.      Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
              Next Meeting: January 22, 2026, at 5:30 p.m.

      D.      Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
              Next Meeting: February 12, 2025, at 5:30 p.m.

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter(s):

1.    CONFERENCE WITH LABOR NEGOTIATOR
      Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6

      A. District Negotiator:     Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
           Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522
      B. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522
      C. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      D. District Negotiator:     Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
           Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                  and Unrepresented Confidential Employees
      E. District Negotiator:     Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
           Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                  and Unrepresented Confidential Employees
      F. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: EMT and Paramedic Memorandum of Understanding

2.    Pursuant to California Government Code 54957(a)
      Consultation with District Counsel and Cyber Security Manager

3.    CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - ANTICIPATED LITIGATION -
      Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
      Section 54956.9 (b): One Case
              Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
              Donnelly, Richard & Theresa v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              John Lavra, General Counsel
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2026


4.       CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - PENDING LITIGATION -
         PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9(d)(1)

                 Ty Bailey v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 Civil Case No. 25CVO31565

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Suite 200, Mather, CA 95655

     •   Regular Board Meeting - January 22, 2026, at 6:00 p.m.

Posted on January 5, 2026, by 4:30 p.m.



Marni Rittburg~ c,cPM
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
•GD Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility.
                      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~m~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief           ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING
                                    BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                            SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                              Thursday, October 9, 2025, at 6:00 PM
                                     Held at the following locations:
                                 10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                            Mather, California
                                                     &
                                           Remotely Via Zoom
   CALL TO ORDER

   The meeting was called to order at 6:01 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
   Clark, Costa, Goold, Jones, Rice, Stark, Webber, and Wood. Board members on Zoom:
   Saylors. Board members absent: None. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

   PUBLIC COMMENTS

   No public comments were received.

   CONSENT ITEMS

   Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by members
   present to adopt the consent calendar as follows:
   1.          Action Summary Minutes
               Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
               Board Meeting of September 11, 2025.
               Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

   PRESENTATION ITEMS:

   1.          Fire Station Design Engagement Plan
               (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
               Recommendation: Receive the presentation.
               Action: Presentation received.

   ACTION ITEMS

   1.          Purchase Approval - 107' Tractor Drawn Aerial
               (Shea Pursell, Fleet Manager)
               Recommendation: Approve the Purchase of a 107' Tractor Drawn Aerial from Golden
               State Fire Apparatus, Inc., utilizing Sourcewell contract #113021 -OKC, ID #234.
               Action: Moved by Director Stark, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by



                                                                                                              P6
        members present to approve the purchase of a 107' Tractor Drawn Aerial from Golden
        State Fire Apparatus, Inc.

  2.    Purchase Approval - Heavy Rescue Unit
        (Shea Pursell, Fleet Manager)
        Recommendation: Approve the Purchase of a Heavy Rescue Unit from Golden State Fire
        Apparatus, Inc., utilizing Sourcewell contract #113021-OKC, ID #271.
        Action: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by
        members present to approve the purchase of a Heavy Rescue Unit from Golden State Fire
        Apparatus, Inc.
  3.    Adopt Resolutions - FY 2024 State Homeland Security Grant Program
        (SHSGP) Award
        (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
        Recommendation: Adopt Resolution accepting the FY24 SHSGP Grant and authorize
        the Fire Chief or his designee to execute all required documents for the administration of
        the grant award. Adopt Resolution to amend the FY 2025/2026 Final Budget for Grant
        Fund 212G.
        Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by
        members present to adopt Resolution 2025-075 accepting the FY24 SHSGP Grant and
        authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to execute all required documents for the
        administration of the grant award.
        Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by
        members present to adopt Resolution 2025-076 amending the FY 2025/2026 Final
        Budget for Grant Fund 212G.

• 4.    Adopt Resolution -Pre-Qualified Shortlist - Architecture and Engineering
        Services
        (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
        Recommendation: Adopt Resolution establishing a Pre-Qualified Shortlist for a five-year
        term comprised of the five highest-scoring firms .
        Action: Moved by Director Costa, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
        members present to adopt Resolution 2025-077 establishing a Pre-Qualified Shortlist for
        a five-year term comprised of the five highest-scoring firms.

  REPORTS

  1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

       President Wood wishes Director Saylors a speedy recovery.

  2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -         (Chief House)

  Good evening, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public

  Celebration of Life - Engineer Mark Rogers

  Date: Tomorrow, October 10, 2025
  Time: 1:00 p.m.
  11 :30 a.m. arrival for those participating in the Sea of Blue
  Location: Bayside Covenant Church - 800 White Rock Road, El Dorado Hills

  For those unable to attend in person, a link was provided to view the live stream.
                                                                                                     P7
  10.9.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 2 of 4
OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

No Report

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
No Report

SUPPORT SERVICES - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)
No Report
                                            I                        .

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522
   Vice President)
     No Report

4.     COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
       All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
       10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless othe1wise specified.

       A.      Executive Committee - (President Wood)
                 No Report

        8.     Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

                 No Report

        C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)

                 No Report

        D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
                The Policy Committee met tonight to discuss one Board Policy, the updated
                Equal Opportunity Policy. Moved to the full Board for approval at a future
                meeting.

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

All Directors wished Director Saylors a speedy recovery.

President Wood thanked Director Rice for the work his committee did on the California
Firefighters Memorial on Saturday, October 4th . Thank you for the hospitality and the effort.
Also, thank you to the agencies that come in support of the members who were put on the
memorial wall.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 6:42 p.m. on the following matter(s):

1.      CONFERENCE WITH LABOR NEGOTIATOR
        Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6

        A. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
           Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522
                                                                                                                    P8
10.9.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                        Page 3 of 4
      B. District Negotiator:    Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
          Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                 Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      C. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      D. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

      E. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

      F. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: EMT and Paramedic Memorandum of Understanding

2. CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA
   GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9(d)

          Significant exposure to litigation pursuant to Paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of section
          54956.9. Activities/incident/discussion with and among staff at Station 106 on
          September 4, 2025.

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened in open session at 8:48 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
that the Board met in closed session on two items: 1. Conference with Labor Negotiator; no
reportable action was taken in closed session. 2. Conference with Legal Counsel; no
reportable action was taken in closed session.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https ://metrofire .ca .gov/2025-10-09-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:50 p.m.




Ted Wood, Board President                              Robert Webber, Secretary




Marni Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk
                                                                                                       pg
10.9.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                        Page 4 of4
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   1       I
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~.~
ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief     ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING
                               BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                       SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                        Thursday, October 23, 2025, at 6:00 PM
                                Held at the following locations:
                            10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                       Mather, California
                                                &
                                      Remotely Via Zoom
   CALL TO ORDER

   The meeting was called to order at 6:01 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
   Clark, Costa, Stark, Webber, and Wood. Board members on Zoom: Saylors. Board members
   absent: Goold, Jones, and Rice. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

   PUBLIC COMMENTS

   One public comment was received from Roger Mitchell.

   CONSENT ITEMS
   Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by members present
   to adopt the consent calendar as follows:
   1.     Action Summary Minutes
          Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
          Board Meeting of September 25, 2025.
          Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

   2.     Approval for Exception To Formal Solicitation Process - Overhaul of
          Copter 1 Transmission
          Recommendation: Approve the request for Exception to the Formal Solicitation Process
          and award a contract to Rotocraft Support, Inc. for Copter 1 Transmission Overhaul.
          Action: Approved the Exception to the Formal Solicitation Process.

   PRESENTATION ITEMS:

   1.     Annual Pension Valuation & Metro 14 Comparison
          (Chief Financial Officer Dave O'Toole)
          Recommendation: Receive the presentation.
          Action: Presentation received.

   2.     CaIPERS CERBT & CEPPT Account Update
          (Chief Financial Officer Dave O'Toole & Therese Luo, Ca/PERS)


                                                                                                        P10
      Recommendation: Receive presentation.
      Action: Presentation received.

3.    Behavioral Health Response Update #4
      (Deputy Chief Mitchell, Battalion Chief Daly & Director of Government Affairs
      Kyle Macdonald)
      Recommendation: Receive the presentation.
      Action: Presentation received.

PUBLIC HEARING:

1.    Introduction and First Reading of Proposed Ordinance 2025-02, Amending
      2025 California Fire Code, Title 24, California Code of Regulations, Part 9
      (Deputy Fire Marshal Diana Schmidt)
      Recommendation: Conduct a Public Hearing and introduce Ordinance 2025-02, by title
      only, waiving the first reading, and proceed with scheduling the second reading and
      adoption for November 13, 2025, to adopt Ordinance 2025-02, thereby adopting and
      amending the 2025 California Fire Code, Title 24, California Code of Regulations, Part 9.
      Action: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by
      members present to waive the first reading and introduce Ordinance 2025-02 and move it
      the second reading.

ACTION ITEMS
1.   Sacramento Local Agency Formation Commission (LAFCo) - Election of Special
     District Representative
     (Board Clerk Marni Rittburg)
     Recommendation: Nominate and vote to elect candidates to serve as Special District
     Representative to Sacramento LAFCo.
     Action: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by
     members present to nominate Director Jones to Sacramento LAFCo for the Special District
     Representative Regular Term seat to serve a 4-year term.
     Action: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by members
     present to nominate Brandon D. Rose with Sacramento Municipal Utility District to
     Sacramento LAFCo for the Special District Representative Regular Term seat to serve a 2-
     year term.
     Action: Moved by Director Saylors, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by
     members present to nominate Charlea Moore with Rio Linda Elverta Recreation and Park
     District to Sacramento LAFCo for the Special District Representative Alternate seat to serve
     a 4-year term.

REPORTS

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

      No Report

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -         (Chief House)

Good evening, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public

Appointment
                                                                                               P11
10.23.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 2 of 5
It is with pride that I announce the appointment of Joe Aldrich to the rank of Assistant Chief,
effective October 17, 2025. Chief Aldrich's assignment will be Shift Commander on C Shift.
Assistant Chief Aldrich spoke regarding his time at Metro Fire and his excitement to begin his
new role.

M~mbers

    •   Congratulations to Chief Nygren for being selected to represent FDAC and Metro Fire
        on the OSFM Fireworks Task Force.

•   Military Members Recognition
        ■   Metro Fire is proud to recognize and honor the 55 of its members who have served
            or continue to serve in the military.
        ■   As a fellow member of the Army', this is something I take great pride in.
        ■   In early November, I'll be making visits to stations and divisions to personally thank
            our military members, presenting each with a special military pin to wear _proudly on
            their uniform.
        ■   We're also planning a social media post to recognize this event, for those who are
            willing to participate.
        ■   This is a small way for us to show appreciation for the selfless service and
            dedication our military members continue to demonstrate, both to our country and
            our community.

    •   Rogers 1 Celebration of Life

        ■   I want to take a moment to thank everyone who played a role in Engineer Mark
            Rogers' Celebration of Life, and in all the planning and preparation that led up to it.
        ■   Whether you were involved in logistics, coordination, support at the event, or any
            part of the process, your efforts made a meaningful difference.
        ■   The way the fire service community came together, along with the incredible
            support from our external partners and local agencies, was truly remarkable.
        ■   It was a powerful reminder of the unity and compassion that define the fire service
            and the broader network we're fortunate to be part of.
    • . Metro Fire's 25th Anniversary Event
        ■   I want to extend my thanks to everyone who helped make Metro Fire's 25th
            Anniversary Celebration on October 18 such a success.
        ■   It was a meaningful opportunity for members past and present to come together
            and celebrate 25 years of service to our community.
        ■   A special thank-you to the Culture Club, who put in a tremendous amount of work
            to plan, organize, and coordinate every aspect of the event, ensuring everything
            came together smoothly the day of.
        ■   I also want to recognize all those who assisted behind the scenes with support,
            coordination, and logistics. Your teamwork and attention to detail made the event
            seamless and memorable.


                                                                                                      P12
10.23.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                         Page 3 of 5
    OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

    No Report

    ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
    No Report

    SUPPORT SERVICES - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

l   No Report

    3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522
       Vice President)
         Captain Scollard congratulated Assistant Chief Joe Aldrich on his appointment. Captain
         Scollard apologized that he had to miss the 25th Anniversary Celebration. We had General
         Membership on October 9th at the Union Hall and Trevor Jameson ran unopposed and
         accepted the nomination as President for a 2-year term. I also ran unopposed and
         accepted the nomination as Vice President for another two years.

    4.      COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
            All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
            10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified. •

            A.      Executive Committee - (President Wood)
                     No Report

            B.      Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

                 o CSD Appointed a new primary representative to the Board, recently appointed
                   DC Josh Freeman
                 o Board voted on and supported a couple of technology upgrades at the Center
                   that are in alignment with their strategic plan
                 o Next meeting is scheduled for next Tuesday, October 28th at 9 am .

            C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Stark)

                    The Finance and Audit Committee met tonight and received the bi-monthly
                    fiscal report and presentation through August 31, 2025.

            D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
                     No Report

    BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

    Director Clark thanked everyone for their reports and Chief House for the open
    communication.

    Director Webber thanked Kyle Macdonald for his hard work and everything he does behind
    the scenes.

    President Wood thanked April West and PIO Mark Nunez for organizing the Fire Prevention
    Week event, Charge into Fire + Life Safety on Saturday, October 11, 2025, at Cordova p 13
    10.23.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                        Page 4 of 5
Baptist Church. The event was a family-friendly event with hands-on demonstrations, safety
tips, and resources to help spark awareness about fire safety. President Wood thanked the
Culture Club for all their hard work in organizing the 25th Anniversary Celebration on
Saturday, October 18th. It was a great event, and I know the Culture Club spent a lot of time
and effort to put this event together.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 7:34 p.m. on the following matter(s):

1.    Public Employee Performance Evaluation: Board Clerk
      Pursuant to Government Code Sections 54957(b)(1) and 54954.5(e)

2.    Public Employee Performance Evaluation: Fire Chief
      Pursuant to Government Code Sections 54957(b)(1) and 54954.S(e)

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened in open session at 8:50 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
that the Board met in closed session on two items: 1. Public Employee Performance
Evaluation of the Board Clerk; no reportable action was taken in closed session. 2. Public
Employee Performance Evaluation of the Fire Chief; no reportable action was taken in closed
session.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca .gov/2025-10-23-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:51 p.m.



Ted Wood, Board President                            Robert Webber, Secretary



Marni Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk




                                                                                                P14
10.23.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 5 of 5
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief



     DATE:         January 8, 2026

     TO:           Board of Directors

     SUBJECT:      Disclosure of Material Expenditure to California Safety Training


                                                 TOPIC

     Staff requests to expend funds to California Safety Training for biennial ACLS Training.


                                              DISCUSSION

     The District provides biennial ACLS and CPR training through a 3 rd party vendor in the Fall
     of alternating years. The selection of the vendor was based on anticipated costs being
     below $100,000, hence staff did not enter into a competitive bidding process. This
     agreement, in the amount of $87,500 did not meet the threshold to conduct a competitive
     bidding process. Once this agreement was implemented and training commenced , an
     unanticipated addition of three additional training days (two classes per day) and the
     addition of ACLS training for MMP Academy 25-2 resulted in an additional invoice for
     $19,373 to complete the training for the District. This combined amount is a total
     expenditure of $106,873.

     It was not possible to retroactively enter into a competitive bid process while the ACLS
     Initial Training Agreement was implemented, nor to enter into a competitive bidding process
     to add additional training days to meet training completion deadlines. The District requires
     all EMT's and Paramedics to complete the training by October 31 to maintain certification
     and licensure to provide service delivery, and interrupting the training was not an option.
     The initial ACLS Training Initial Agreement of $87,500 has been paid based on the original
     agreement not exceeding the competitive bid threshold. The additional invoice for ACLS
     Additional Days/Students in the amount of $19,373 is pending Board of Director approval,
     which places the total cost of the training at $106,873.

                                            FISCAL IMPACT

     The fiscal impact to the District for the 2056 - 2026 fiscal year is $106,873 which is
     under the budgeted amount available in the EMS Training Budget.




                                   Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                             P15
Page 2


                                                       RECOMMENDATION

         Staff recommends the Board of Directors approve the final payment of $19,370 to
         California Safety Training.


         Submitted by:                                                 Approved by:


          ChnJtovher Gree11e                                             l"~ f,, A . 'FUIYWv
                                                                           7 f"bic.a (OK ll,. :lOH lt.tt. ll P'ST)
                                                                        '-P-\
         Ch"::.to,.Wdr..-.('OKJJ, >OUIUJOi,Sf)


         Christopher Greene                                            Joseph Fiorica
         Assistant Chief, Training Division                            Deputy Chief, Support Services


         ATTACHMENTS:

         Attachment 1: Request for Exception to Formal Solicitation Process and Disclosure
         Statement




                                                 Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                                     P16
                          Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                          HEADQUARTERS: 10545 Armstrong Ave. • Mather, CA, 95655 , Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702
                           Website: WW\11.metrofire.ca.gov
                           PURCHASING: 3012 Gold Canal Dr. , Rancho Cordova, CA, 95670 , Phone (916)859-4360 • Fax (916) 859-3729




                      REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS
                                              and
                                     DISCLOSURE STATEMENT

Purchase Description: Bi-Annual ACLS / CPR Training

Proposed Vendor:            California Safety Training
      Checl< One:          l ✓ IException to Formal Solicitation Process                           Osole Source
      (An exception to the formal solicit ation process is when there are similar products/servi ces available from ot her
      sources, but you have a strong justification to purchase a specific produ ct/service from the proposed vendor. A sole-
      source is wh en th ere is no alternative product/service available. )


Estimated Total Cost:$ $106,873.00


This form must accompany the vendor quote document whenever an exception to the formal solicitation
process is requested. St ate and local laws subject the Sacramento Metrop olitan Fire District to competitive
bidding rule s. Request s for goods and/or services from a specifi c vendor or that are limit ed t o a specific
brand, where substitutes to the recommended vendor or bra nd are not in t he best interest of the
District, mu st be accompani ed by a written justification explaining the circumstances that make alt ernatives
unacceptable. The employee signing the justificat ion must disclose in writing whether or not they have a
potenti al or actu al conflict of interest. Metro Fire employees who have a business re lat ionship with or
financial or personal interest in the recommended vendor must disclose the conflict of int erest. Any
empl oyee with an actual or potential conflict of interest may not participat e in the purchase decision.

The Purchasing Agent and branch Deput y Chief will det ermine whether the justification is appro priate.
Requests for exceptions to the formal solicitation process must be support ed by fa ctual st at ements that will
pass an audit and must be submitted to the Board of Directors for final review and approval.



INSTRUCTIONS
Complete the above fields and all the following pages and sign in the appropriate places. If needed, attach all
supporting documentation. Once complet ed, submit to Purchasing for review. This fo rm shall be attached t o
your requisition after you have received approval from the Board of Directors.




                                                                                                                                    Page 1 of 4
                                                                                                                                           P17
             REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT




1. Please check all applicable categories below and provide additional information where indicated.

 D a. The requested product is an integral repair part or accessory compatible with existing equipment.
              Existing Equipment:

              Manufacturer/Model Number:

              Age:

              Current Estimated Value:


 □ b. The requested product has unique design/performance specifications or quality requirements that
      are not available in comparable products.

           I have standardized the requested product, and the use of another brand/model would require
           considerable time and funding to evaluate.
           The requested product is one in which I (and/or my staff) have specialized training and/or extensive
           expertise. Retraining would incur substantial cost in time and/or funding.

 D e. The requested product is used or ·demonstration equipment available at a lower-than-new cost.
 D f. Repair/Maintenance service is·available only from the manufacturer or designated service
           representative.

 D g. Upgrade to or enhancement of existing software is available only from the manufacturer.
 D h. Service proposed by vendor is unique, therefore, competitive bids are not available or applicable.
 l■I i.    Other factors


2. Provide a detailed explanation and pertinent documentation for each category checked in Section 1 above.
   Attach additional sheets if necessary:
    The District provides Bi-Annual ACLS and CPR Training through a 3rd party vendor in the Fall
    of alternating years. The selection of the vendor was based on anticipated costs below
    $100,000, hence Staff did not enter into a competitive bidding process. This agreement, in the
    amount of $87,500 did not meet the threshold to conduct a competitive bidding process. Once
    this agreement was implemented and training commenced, an unanticipated addition of three
    additional training days (two classes per day) and the addition of ACLS training for MMP
    Academy 25-2 resulted in an additional invoice for $19,373 to complete the training for the
    District. This combined amount is a total expenditure of $106,873.




                                                                                                       Page 2 pff18
               REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT


3.   Was an evaluation of other equipment, products, or services performed?                                    D Yes        i.J No
     If yes, please provide all supporting documentation.

4. List below the name of each individual who was involved in the evaluation, if conducted, and/o r in making
   the recommendation to procure this product or service. Attach additional information if necessary. Each
   individual must submit a completed and signed Disclosure Statement (attached).

        1.                                                                      2.

        3.                                                                      4.




 I certify that the above information is accurate to the best of my knowledge, and a signed copy of this
 document will be kept on file and available for audit in my department.
                                           l. O)gilat1y signed by Christopher
                  Christopher
                  Greene
                                           ,, Greene
                                          1 'Dato: 2025.12.31 13:49:48
                                             -08'00'
                                                                                           Assistant Chief
                                    Signature                                                 Budget Officer Title

                   Christopher Greene                                                         12/31/25
                                  Printed Name                                                       Date

                                                                                Approval

I hereby certify that I fully agree with and support this request to waive the District's formal solicitation
process requirements for the purchase listed in the enclosed documentation.
                                   1.
         Joseph   A • Fiorica·\ D,gitatly slgncdby JosephA. Fiorica
                             , Date: 2025.12.3 t 14:44:18 -08'00'                          Joseph Fiorica 12/31 /25
              Branch Deputy Chief Signature                                                 Printed Name        /    Date




                                                                                                                              Page 3 Pfll9
               REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT



                                           DISCLOSURE STATEMENT TO ACCOMPANY
                                   REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS


When submitting a request for an exception to the formal solicitation process, each individual involved in
evaluating and/or in making a recommendation to purchase the proposed good/service must complete, sign,
and submit this Disclosure Statement. Filing an annual statement of economic interest does not exempt
an employee from this requirement. Attach additional information if necessary.

Purchase Description:    Bi-Annual ACLS / CPR Training

Proposed Vendor:         California Safety Training

   1.   Please list any income or gifts you received from this vendor during the past 12 months:

         None
   2. Please list any financial interests (stocks, shares, investments, etc.) you have in this vendor:
         None

   3. Do you have any other type of business or personal relationship with this vendor?
         None
   4. To the best of your knowledge, does any member of your departmental staff have a business or
        personal relationship with this vendor?
         None

   5. Do you or any of your near relatives have any financial or personal interest in this vendor? If yes,
      please describe.
         None

   6. Please provide any additional information you believe should be disclosed at this time:

         N/A

I certify that the above information is accurate to the best of my knowledge, and a signed copy of this
document will be kept on file and available for audit in my department.
        Christopher           \ g'.~~~ ~ signedbyChristopher         Assistant Chief
        Greene            :    oaie: 202s.12.31 1J:49:3s-oa·oo·

                        Signature                                                    Title

        Christopher Greene                                                     12/31/25

                      Printed Name                                                    Date




                                                                                                         Page 4   pf210
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong AvQ., Suite 200 • Mnlher, CA ·o56.li!i • Phom~ (016) 859:4300 • fnx (916) 86$-3702


ADAM A, HOUSE
  Firo.Chiot


     DATE:           January 8; 2026

     TO:             B9ard of Directors

     SUBJECT:        Purchase Approval - Ten (1 0) Chevrolet 1ahoes


                                                            TOPIC

     $1aff seeks Board approv~I for the purchase of ten (10) Chevrolet Tahoes from Nallonal Auto Fleet
     Group: •                                                      •                • •

                                                         SUMMARY

     These veliicles will be replarilr'Jg Chevrolet Tahoes which are at the end of their service fife due to age •
     anclmileage.                        •
                                                        0·1scuss10N

     The _ SacrB;mento Me~opCJlitan Fire District (Metro Fire) Intends to fulfill this purchase utilizing Sourcewell
     contract #0~1521°NAF. Sourcewell is a ·State of Minne~o(a local goverrimenl unit.and service coopera\iv1;1
     ih_at facilitates competitive public sollcltatlons atad co_nltact ~ward procl,'¼sses for tha·baii-efll of Its 60,00_0+
     partlclpa!ing entities across the United States and Canada. Ccipperative pur~hasitig provi~e!l parl_          icipating
     agencies lncrea~ed adinlnl~trallve efficlencl_es ancj the power of comblriecl purchasing voli1me th.al "resulls
     in overall cost savings. The Put<::hasing Division has revie\ved the ·contract"and cielermined it Is consistent·
     with Metro Fire purchasing policies a11d procedures.

                                                      FISCAL IMPACT

     The total cost of the purcha~e for the ten (10) Chevrolet Tahoes is $664,668,87. ·rhe purchase is included
     in the FY 2025/26 Final Blidget t,om·Measure o funds.

                                                   RECOMMENPATION

     staff respe_ ctrully recommends th~ aoard approve ·the purchase of t~n (10) Chevrolet T~hoes from
     Nationc;1I Auto FleerGroup utilizing Soilrcewel( contract#091521~NAF.


     Submitted by:                                                      Approved by:


           ~m~~~
     Shea Pursell
                                                                        AdaM M1tchett
                                                                       A.hali'.)Jt:,fiJIPf'(P.?-)>f~ l1fCl,::;l)

                                                                       Adam Mitchell
     Fleet Manager                                                     Deputy Chief, Support Services •

     ATTACHMENTS:

     Alt{tchment 1: Purchase Quotes 33664 R1 (4 units), and 33666 R1 (6 units)



                                                                                            ~

                                          se,vlng Sacramento nnd Placer Counties

                                                                                                                               P21
                                 -- ·-·     - - -- - - - - --       - - - - - - -- - - - - - --               - --   --



                                 Nati~o~-~!.,~!!!~ f ~.!~t Group
                                      490 Auto C!)nter Drlvo, Wauon11lllo 1 DA 8507 6
                                          (85 5) 2B9•85 7 2 ·• (BS1) lf8P•807 fo11
                                                           .
                                          Fl uurNatlunal Auiofl•atOrbup,aam
                                           ..

11/~5/2025                                                                Quote ID: 33664 R1
1211/2025 Re-Configured
                                                                          Ord~r Cut Off Date: TBA
Mr Shea Pursell
_
Sacramen\o Metropolitan Fire District
4425 Dudley Blvd.
McClellan, California, 95652
Dear Shea Pursell,
N_atlonal Auto Fleet Group is pleased to qltote tile following vehicle(s) for your consid~ralion.
Four (4) New/Unused (20.26 Chevrolot Tahoe (CK10_706) 4WD 4dr Gommerclal,) and delivered to your specified
location, each for
                         One Unit   One Unit                    Total%        Exte1ided        Total Savings
                          (MSRP)                               Savinijs       Ui1it'~ (4)
  Contract Price       $63,917.00 $61,678.09                   3.503 %     $246,712;35            $8,955.65
  Tax (7.7500 %)                           $4,780.05                       . $19,120.20-
  Tire fee                                     $8.75 •                          $35.00
  Total                                   $66,466.89                       •$265,867.55

- per tile attached specifications.
This_vehicle(s) is available pnder th~·Sourcewell Contr~ct Q~1521-NAl= . Please reference this Contr~ct number 011
all purJ:hase orders to National Auto Fleet Groi1p. P~yment terms are Net 20 days afier receipt of vehicle.
Thank you In adv~nce for your consideration. Should you have any questions, please do f)Ol hesitate to call.
Sincerely,



Jesse Cqoper                                              Stanparq Quoting Department
Account Manager                                           Account Manager
Email: Fleet@NalipmilAutoF·l~elGroup.com                  Fleet@NationalAutoFleetGroup.com
Office: {85!;i) 289-6572                                  {855) 289-6572
Fax: (831) 4&0;84~7

 c::__
     ~
CIIEVIIOlET
                                                         ®
                                                         TOY.OTA




                                                                                                                      P22
            Purchase Order Instructions & Resources
       Once. units are.scheduled b,Y- OEM, no cancellations are accen,ted



In order to finalize yottr purch9se please submit this purchase packet to your
governing body for a purchase order approval and submit your purchase order in the
following way:


                         Email: Fleet@NationalAutoFleetGroug.com
                         Fax: (831) 480"8497
                         Mail: National Auto Fleet ~roup
                                   490 Auto Center Drive
                                   Watsonville, CA 95076


       We will send a courtes~U:;onfirmation for Y,our order and a w.;g if needed.



                                    Additional Resources

Learn how to track your vehicle:                           www.NAFGETA.com

Use the upfitter of your choice:                     www.NAFGP-artner.com

Vehicle Status:                          ETA@NationalAutoFleetGroUP-.COm

General Inquiries:                       Fleet@NationalAutoFleetGrouP-.com



For ge_neral questions or assistance please contact our main office at:


                         1-855-289-6572
                                                                                     P23
Vehicle Configuration Options
EMISSIONS

C.ode        Descriptiot1
FE9          Emissions, Federal requirements
ENGINE


Code         Description
L84          Engine, 5.3L EcoTec3 V8, (STD)
TRANSMISSION

Code         Description
             Tran~mission, ·10-speed autcimatic,.electronically controlled with overdrive, includes
MHU
             Traction Select System including tow/haul
AXLE

Code         Description
GUS          Rear axle, 3.23 ratio
PREFERRED EQUIPMENT GROUP

Code         Description
1FL          Com·merclal Preferred Equipment Group, Includes standard equipment
TIRES

Code         Description
xcs          Tires·; 275/55_
                           R20SL all-season, blackwall, Firestone Fire.hawk Pursuit
SEAT TYPE


Code         Description
         -
AZ3          Seats, front 40/20/40 ·split-benchJ (STD)
                                                                     -   ..

RADIO
                                             .   .         ..

Code         m~s.c ription
URW          Audio sy~ten,,. 17.7"-tjiagon~I advanced c_
                                                       olor LCD display, (STD)
ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT
                                                                                         -

Code         Description
             ldeptifjer for Police-Package Vehicle, (Also includes (NPO) active single-speed transfer
9C1
             case.)
PQA          1FL Saf~ty Package, Includes (UEU) Foiward Collision Alert, (Ul<M) Enhanced La·ne Ke~p
             Assist with Lane Departure Warning, (UKI) Bllnd Zone Steering Assist, (UHY) Automatic

                                                                                                        P24
            Emergency Braking, (lJ_FB)' Rear Gross Traffic Srakihg, (Ul<T) Front Pedes_           trian and_ .
            Bicycli$t.J3rqking, (CTE.3) ln.!ersecti_on_A4tqnictfic Em~rgenoy Staking, (UOW) Side Bicyclist
            Alert, ·(DRZ) Rear Cam~ra. MirrCJr anp (tQs) ltit~l_liB~a,m ~~-c\cila.,nps
            Remote ~eyl~ss E11try Packt;lg~, iricllid¢s ,4 addition~! tansrnitti:irs, NOTE~ progr;¼ntming _       of
AMF         temotes is at customer 1~ -~xpe.nse, P(Qtframtniiig r1:fri16fes is t1ot ~ .war"ranty :exp_ ense           .
yo3         Cooling.systein; exfra capadly
K-3\f\/     Batlei-yi 90Q.cold~cra11kfrig :amps with.95 airlp tioi:Jr rating
            Battery, auxiliary, 760 ;cold-c~ariking ainps with 70 -~:imp hour raHng, (packaged behind leff
K6K         re~_rcargo area·panel)                   ••
KX4       • Alternatori 2~0 arn.ps
V16         {tecovery
              ..          t)oo~s. 2 fro_n. t,
                                           . frame-mounted·
                                                   .         , Black_
                                                                 ..
RC1         Skid pliite, fro~t                                                                                    - -

J55         B_  rake system,. heavy dyty with front B.rembo calipers and161' front rotors
~
            Cqples~ Fuel._Fill
RNO         VVheel, ·flill-size' spare,·n)cltching 2_011 (50.8 crriJ~teel ¥,theel witoout center cap
RAV         Tfre, spare -275/56R20 all~season, blackwal_l 1 Fit'estone Firehawk Pursult
            Fascia, .front hi_ gh-approach angle; with recovery hook openings, but does not include
WUA         hooks                                                                                                \,


V5~         Luggage
                  . .    rack s.ide
                                 . rails,
                                      . . delet~
                                              • .
TQ5 .-      ltite_lliBea·m, a.utomatic hJgh beam on/off
            Ext~rio~ ornamentation dele,t~, •(front & re~rChevro!et bowties will remain)
ATD         Seatqelete, third rov/p~ssenger
VZ2         Speedc,mete-r
             . ...,.
                              calibration
                                  . .
            Inst(umentation, analqg, with ·certified '140 rnph $peedorneter, pdometer with trip odometer,
-           ~ngiri~ :hour meter, fu~I leVel, voltrnete.r; erigine _te_tnperature.; oil pre·ssure a11d tach.ome.ter
AX-2        ~<~yi uniqLie
BTV         Remote·start,
K34         Cruise control, e_lectronic with se_t and re:wrne speed
            Theff.,_deterrentsystehi, vehicl~; PASSq(ey Ill
UUA         Ojsphw;-~utpmc:1tic:~fccupant s~nsirig
            Power ~up·pty, 50~amp, powei· supply, au*ilia1y" battery," ·pa$seng·er t;ompi;tljinent wiring
-           harness
            Power-su_pply, 100-arnp, auxiliary batte_iy, rear electrical center
-
            Power supply, 120-arnp, (4) 30-amp cii'cliit, Prirnary battery, relay controlled, passenger
-           COmpartrnenf ila,rn_~SS Wiring         •              • I                                    •_

oR·z        R~ar Camera:Mirrqr, ·insi~lerea.rvi~w a.uto d_irnmiilg_,with full camera display
                                                             0



Ul<T .      Front Pe,destri;m and Bjcyclist Braking
CTB         lntersecUon Aqtomati¢ Eme_rgency Br~kin_g, intersection..    alert/ brak_
                                                                                    ing
UHY         Auton,,~tic Emergency Brak_   ing
            Se.at _
                  belts, 3-point,_aH seatin~ pos,1tio11s
          , AcUve Hilt"Hold Assist..
UKI         Bltnd Zone Steering_Assl_  st
UFB         Rear Cross Traffic Brciking                  -- ·- -          -·----      - ---~ - - -- - --             ..
                                                  ·--- - -

                                                                                                                      P25
uow          $ide Bicyolist Alert •
UKM          ~~rte Keep fl.s_sist, \Ni.th Laile O¢p_artt.u:e
                                                          . -W~rhing, _ehhahced
                                                                            .
l/_
  D7         R.~ar Parking A$si~t
LIEU ·      _Foi'¥,tard Gollision AIJ~"rt
             Prot.ect~d !die,-allQWs vehicle e,ngji1tHo remain idlitjg and vehic1e·irnmobili4ed while FOB is·
-            outside vehicle        • • •          •                        • •       •
         Wiring; ahxilia1y ~peaker., Fprupfi(ter coimediordo front door"a.nd winds"tileld.pilla·r
WX7
         spe_ c1kers.
6_J3     Wiri,~g, _grille.l~rnps·an.d·sire.n speakers
$J4      Wiring, ho~n and_siren c_    ircuit
UT?      Ground wires, bl_1,mt cyt cargo ar~a and blunt cut console area
T66.     Wirin_ g provi'sion, for o~tside· mirrprs ~~q c~rn9· sl9~·mirrors·
5j7      Flasher-s_ystem;-heJtdl_amp an~ ta1Han_1p, DRL compatible with control wire
5J9      Calibra(ion, taillamp fl~~her, Re~/White
5Lb      Qalibrntion, taillamp·flasher, Red/Red
         Lighting, red and.white front auxiliary dome, Red and white LED a.uxiltary dome lamp.i_              s
6C7      locate·d oli headlin~r befyleen front row seats. Th~ -auxiliary lamp is.wired ind~p.enderitly
         frqm stari_dard dome lamp
         Rep Left/Red Right WJielen LED.Lamp -Pac~age, tou·r ION l_i_         ght heacls mounted i.r1 lroht
6J9      grille arid integrated Older Edge Rear Pillarwi"th six ION lighl'heads. Original exteriofD~
         piJ!ar t_rirn :shipped loose for ve!ilct~·decomrnissionfo_g.
         Lamps, alternate flashing Red & Bfue rear compartment lid warning, (visible when liftgate is
T53
         o·peh) and boniroll~d by momentary liftgate rriounteq switch or _
                                                                   ~
                                                                                  grounq wir~ .
sJa      Calibrat_  ion, Surveillanc~ ·Mo_ de·interlqr lighting
BCV      Lock c_  ontrol, driver ·side.auto door l9ck·dis_ able
5T5      $~·ats, frorit cloth and .secprig_row vinyl
         Front ·center seat (20% ~-e~t) delet~, power driver qnd pa.ss_enger b1,.1cket seats .in bas~ .cloth
         trim. Dedved from RP.b (AZ3) 40/20/40 ·splif-be.nch sef\t with the. 20% section r~nioved 1
5Y1
        which also removes -the auxiliary power outlet, USB port.and iriputjack fof audio syst~m.
         bo~s:not includ~ a ftoor..consoJe. All exposed floor area·wfll rernaio untrimmed.
UN9      Ra:dio -Suppress,on P.ackage, with·ground straps
TGK
         Specia_  l Palnt; one·col9r, Required with a_    ny special paint s~Iection~ R~fer to indlvidual
         special p~int $EC codi~s .fqr de.t~i!s :on ~ody polored.·n.ot:1-~h'3-et metal JJ"~uts_.
                                                    -
01.U     Sp_edal Paint
         Spe~ial P?int; Victory Red WA 92.60; Victo.1y Rec;I pai1_1te_q parts·will be ftQntf~sGl_  a, -rear
5T4     fascia, tailgate ·applique, liftg.ate·handle.arid door- hahd_les. Bla¢k p;,irfa will b_~ b-j:)illi:lr
        appliq1,1e 1 rear-spoiler; mfrroi•s, ultrasonic park assist sensors and Or1Stat' .antenna;
SUSPENSiON PKG

Code        D~scripfion
            su·sJfohsion P~ck~ge, he'avy-duty, _police:-rated., Full inp(3pendent &t,tsp_en~_ic>,n\vith
256'        inonotube ·dampers, linea'r c·oil springs, 35n1m solid front·staQitize;- har arid 32mrn hollow
            rear stabilizer bar                                    - -~




                                                                                                              P26
WHEEL TYPE


Coc:le        Descl'ipUon
PXT           Wheels, 2011 _x 911 (50.8 cm x .22.9 cm)° steel
SHIP THRU CODES


Code          Description
              Ship Thru, Produced in Arlington Assembly and shipped to Kerr Industries and onto
VPV           Arlli1gton Assembly
         .-

GVWR
                          - .

Code          Description
C6G           GVWR, 7600 lbs. _(3447 kg), (STD)                                      -




                                                                                                  P27
2026 Fleet/Non.;.Retail Chevrolet Tahoe 4Wo· 4dr Commercial
WIND.O W STICKER
2026 Chevr!')let Tal1_00 4WO 4_dr 99mhiercial


CODE         MODEL                                                                                                       MSRP-
CK10706      2026 Chevrolet Tahoe 4WD ·4dr Commercial                                                                $57;200.00



             OPTIONS
FE9          Emlssi<>ns, F~deral requirements                                                                            ·$0.0.0·
L84           nginy, 5!3L EcoJec3 va,·_
             E_                       (STD)                                                                              $0.00:
MHU          Transrrifs_siciil, 10-~peed automatic, efectro11ically c;ontrollecf with over~rive, includes Traction         [NC
             Se!ec\ Sy~tem ln~ludin_g fown1a.ul        •              •                              •       ••
GU5          Rear axle, 3.23 ratio                                                                                       :$0.00 -
1FL          Commercial Preferred Eqtilpment.Group, includes standard equipment                                          $0.()0
xcs         TJres, 275/55R20Sl allasoason, blackwall, Firestone Firehawk Pursuit                                           INC
AZ3          Seats, frpnt 40/20/40 split-bench, (STD)                                                                    ~0.00
URW         Aue.Ila ~ys_tep1, 17.7" dia9on~I advan~tid color LCD di~play, (STD)                                          .;o.oo.
9C1          l(feniilier for Police Rac~age Vehicle, (Also in_cluq_es "(!~PO)_ ~ctrve single~spe_
                                                                                                ed liansfer.ca~e.)       $0.CJO
POA         ·1FL Safety f:lackage;•ipcludes (UEU) F9rward Go!lision A!e·rt, (Ul<M) Enhanced Lane Keep A_
                                                                                                       ssist·         -·$a2.~.oo
            _with Lane D.ep_ ,utu_re_V\farntl)g, (UKI) Blind Z_
                                                              onq Steeri~gA·ss_fsti (UHYfA~tomaUc Emerg_ency
            Braking, _(UFB) _Rear C~oss Traffic Braking, (Ul<T) ·Front R_edesfr[an and Sicyc;list Brakitig, (CT.B)
            interse~tion_ Automatic Emergency Braking, (UOVV) Side Bicyclist Alert, _(DRZ} Rear Ca"rn~ra Mfrror
            an-d·:c_ro5).lntelliBeam headlamps                                           •    •
AMF          Remote K~yless Entry Pac~age, lncluoes.·4 addftipnal tratismitt~rs, NOTE: programming of
            remqtes is at customer's ~)(pens_e. Prograinming reinotes·Is not a ,var~!'•nty exp~rise
V03         Cooling system, exlra ·capacity                                                                                INC.
K3W         Battery, 900 cold-cranking amps with 95.~rnp hour rating_                                                      ING
K6K              ry, auxili_ary, 760 co_ld•cmnking amps with 70 amp hc:llir ralirjg, _
            Batte_                                                                   (p_ackaged \}ehind left rear          INC
            cargo are~fpan.el) •            •                 •                   •
l<X4        Alternator; 250 amps                                                                                           INC
V76         Recovery hooks, 2 front,. frame-mounted, Black                                                                 INC
RC1         Skid plate; front                                                                                              INC
J55         make system, heavy duty_v-iith front Brembo calipers an<! t~•· front rotors                                    ING_
                     I
            Capless Fuel Fill                                                                                              INC
l{NQ        .Wtreel, full:s\z.e. sp~r.e, matching 20" (50.8 cm) s_teel wheel without center cap                            INC
HAY         Tire, spare 275/55R;l0 all-season-, Qlackwalf, Firestone Firehawk Pursuit                                      ING.
WUA         Fascia~ front high-approach anglei with recovery hook openfn~s, but does not Include hooks                     IN·c ·
V63         Luggage rack side rails, delete                                                                                INC
TQ5         fntelliBeatn, automatic high beam on/off                                                                       INC
            Extlclrlor ornamentation delete, (front & rear Chevrolet bowties wifl reniait'I)                               INC:
ATD         Seat delete, third row p~ssei1i1er                                                                             INC
VZ2         Speedometer ca[ibr'ajion                                                                                       INC·


                                                                                                                                   P28
        Instrumentation, analog; with 9ertifl~tj 140 mph speedometer, odometer vntll. trip.qdometer, engine              •INC
        hour meter, fuel level, voltmeter, engine tempernture, oil pressure ar10 tachon1eter
AX2     Key, unique.                                                                                                      INC
EHY     Re1not(;} st<lrt                                                                                                  rNc
1(34    Gruis~ ·c;ontrol, electronic; v.iith set and re~ume ~peed                                                         INC.

        Thefl-det~_rrent system, vehicle, PASS~l(ey Ill                                                                   INC.
        Display, autorila,i.c occupant sensing                                                                            INC
        Pt)',JJer·surply, 50::amp,.power supply~ aul'.(illary ba~tery, passenger compartrnent wiring ha mess              INC.
        Power supply, 1oo~amp, auxiliary battery, rear.electrical center                                                  ING
        ·Powersupply, 120-ampi (4) 30-amp circuit, Priinary battery, relay controlled; passenger                          INC:
         compartment harnes~ Wiriri g.                                               ••      •
QRZ     .Rear Cam!}ra Mirror, inslde' rMrvlew a\.1to~di111mir1g; wm.i fulf c.;imera ~ispiay                               INC

UKT     f:rorit. P~dc.striart ~t)d Bityr.llstl3raki1'!9                                                                   INC

CTB     1i1t~iseclion Aut()nuitic .Eniyr'gerW/ Braking, intersection alert, braking                                       INC

UHY'    Autoriiati9 Emergency Brc!king                                                                                    INC

        Seat bells, 3-point,: all s~atirig poslti.ons                                                                     INC

        Active Hill Hold Assisi                                                                                           INC
                                                                                                                          INC
Ui<i    Blind Zone'·steering Assist
UFB     Rear Cross traific Braking                                                                                        INC

uow     $Ide Bicyclist Alert                                                                                              INC.

        Lahe Keep Assist, willl La11e OeparttireWari1irJg; enhanc~~                                                       INC
!Jl<M
        Rear. Parking Assi~t                                                                                              INC·,
UD?
        Foiwatd Collision Alert                                                                                           INC,
UEU
        Ptot~Gted idle, allows vet1icle ~ngine to remain idling and vehicle immobilized \'Jhile FOB is (.il\lslde          INC·
        vetiicJe·:                                       • •        •      •          •               •       •
WX7     Wiring, auxiliary speaker., For upfitter conneclionto front door and windshield pillar speakers.              $100.oo:
6J3     Wiring, grille lamps and siren speakers                                                                        $92.00
6J4     Wiring, horn and siren circuit                                                                                •$75,00
llT7    Ground wires, bJunt c11t ~atgo a.rea:an!i blunt cut c:¢nsole. area                                                 INC
T~6     1/1/fring provision, tor·outside mir~ors ·~ind cargo side mirrors                                                  INC
EP7      Flasher ·system, he~dlamp antj taillanJp, DRL compat1!11e with control wire                                       INC
5J9      Calibration, taUJainp flasher, Re~/White                                                                          IN.c
SLO     .Calibr~tion, tailla11ip fla~,1er, Red/Red                                                                         INC
6G7      lighting, red and white front auxUiary don:ie. Retj and whiie LE.Ci auxiliary ciorne lamp is located on      $170.00
         hhadilner between frent row seats: The·auxiliary lai11p is 'wired ii1depen~entlylrom standard ciome
         lalilp
6J9      R¢<i,.L~.ft/~ed Right W11e1e·11 U~D L~mp Package, four ION lighthead~ mq~111ted in ·front grflle;i anci.   $1.,950:0C.l
         itit~Mated Qu.te·r E~ge J~¢ar Piliafvnth six ION light heads. Oiigincil ~l(lerior D~plllar trim shipped
         loose for vehicle (lec¢,mrnissionliig.
T5~      L~mps, elternate ~ashing Red. & Blue rear compartment lid wa(niQ9,. (visible w)len liftg~te is open)         $565.00
         and c<1ntrolle,d oy rriomentary· ungatffmounted switch or ground wire •                 •
5J3      Calibration, Survelllance Mode'interior lighlinQ                                                                  INC
BCV      Lock control, driver side auto door lock.disable                                                                  INC.
5T5      Seats, front cloth and second.row vinyl                                                                         $0.00
5Y1      Front cen(cr seat (40°/o se~t} .deJ.ete, power ~river and pas!;leng~r buc~e.t seat~ i.n bas~ cloth trim.       .$0.00
         Derived froin RPO (AZ~) 40/20/46.~plii-b¢.n~h seat with the 200/4 s~ctioi,· removed, \Vhich also

                                                                                                                                   P29
              removes the auxiliary power outlet, USB poIt and input jack for audio system. Does not Include ri
              floor (:onsole. All exposed 11oor area will remain untrimmed..
 UN9          Radio Suppression Package, with ground straps                                                                  $95.00

 TGI<         Special Paint. ~me cot~r. Requlred with any special paint selection. Refer to individpal special p\'.)lnt        $0.00
              SEO codes for details on body colored noh-sheet metal pa,ts.
 01U          Special P{1inl                                                                                                   $0.00·
 5T,1         Special paint, Vict9ry Red WA 9260, Victory Red painted parti:i will be front fasc.ia, rear fascia,           $260.00
              tailgat<c appligue, liftgale handle ai,d door handles, Black parts will be D-pillar <jpplique, rn.ar
              spoiler; mirrors, ultrasonic park assist sensors and onstar at\lenna,
 256          Suspension Package, h,imvy-duty, pollct;~mted., Full Independent suspension with monolube                         INC.·
              dampers; linear coil springs, 35mm solid front stablli7.er bar and 32mm hollow rear .stabilizer bar
 PXT          Wheels" 20" x 9" (60:8 cm x 22.9 cm) steel                                                                        INC.

 VPV          Ship Thru, Produced in Arlington Assembly and shipped to !(err Industries and onto Arlington                     $0.00
              Assembly
 C6G          GVWR, 7600 lbs. {3447 k~), (STD}                                                                                 $0.00


 Please not.e selected ~plions override standard equipment

              SUBTOTAL                                                                                                    $61,322.00

              Advert/ Adjustments                                                                                              $0.00

              Manufacturer Destination Charge                                                                              .$2,595.00

              TOTAL PRICE                                                                                                 $6·3,917.00


 Est Cjty: NIA MPG
 Est Highway: N/A MPG
 Est Highway Cruising Range: NIA mi



Any pe.tformance.related calculations are offered solely as guidelines. Actual unit performance will depentj on your.operating
cohdilion·s.




                                                                                                                                        P30
Standa1·d Equipment

MECHANICAL

Engine, 5.3L EcoTec3 VB with Dynamic Fuel Management, Dirett Injection and Variable Valve Timing,
inciudes at.uminum l<lock COl}Sfruction {355 hp [265 kWJ @5600 rpm, 383 lb-ft of torque [518 Nm]@
4·100 rpm) (STD}
Tra1ismission, 1o-·speed automatic electronically controlled with overdrive, includes Traction Select
System including fow/haul (STD}
Rear axle,· 3.23 ratio. .
Suspension, ~remium Smo?th Ride (STD)
GVWR, 7600 lbs_, (~417 kQ)_(4WD models only.) (STD)


EXTERIOR

Wheels, .1811 x 8.5 11 '(45.7 _
                              cri1 x 21 . 6 cm) Bright Si.Iver painted aluminum (STD)
Tire.s, 265/65R18SL all-season, blackwall (Standard with (RCV) 18" aright Silver painted aluminum
wheels orily.) (STD)


ENTERTAINMENT

Audio syste·m, 17.7" diagonal advai1ced color LCD display with Google bui{t~in- compatibility (s·elect
service plan required, tenns and limitations apply), including navigation capability, connected apps,
                                         settings, ~atural Voice Recognition and Phone lntegratiqn (STD}
person~lized pr~files for e_~ch driver's _


INTERIOR

Iseats, front 40/20/40 spJit.;bench (STD)I


ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT
.. -
Keyless sta1i, push button
At1toma.tjc Stop/Start (Not available with (9C1) Police Vehicle or (5W4) Special Service Vehicle.)
Engin_e control, stop/start sy~tem disable button, non-latching
Engine air filtration monitor
Fuel, gasoline, E15
Transfer case, active, single-speed, electronicAutotr~c does not include neutral. Cannot be dinghy
towed
Differential, mechanical limited-slip
4-Whe·er drive
Air filter, heavyrduty
Cooling, external engine oil cooler, heavy-duty· air-to-oil integral to driver side of radiator
Cooling, ·auxiliary transmission oil co?ler, heavy-duty air-to,oil

                                                                                                           P31
  Bi:i.Uery; 7$0_cokfi'cranklog arrjpswith ad·amp hour r'ating (Not av~ilable wit.h (~C1) Pplice P?ckage tir
. {5W4) $pedal Service Package.)
 Alternator, 220 amps (Not.available With (9C1) .Police Vehicle or (5W4) $pedal Servlce. Vehicle,)
 Trailering equipmefa includes trailering hjtch platforml 7-Wire harness with independent fused.trailering
 9ircuils
  .
          mated'to
             .     a ?~way. connector ..and 2" tn:i°ilerirm
                                                    .       ·receiver                                    •
 Trailer sway co.ritrol (Nof avc;lilable with (9Q1) Po\ice-VelliQle or (5W4)" Special Servic~ Vehicle.)
 Hitch Guidance
          ~ ...
 {W~p.€3.nsiQr,, ·t ront coil-over-;sh.ock wit~ stabiiizer bar (Not avai.lable v.iith. (9C'1) Police Vehicl.e or (5W4)
 sp;ecial .seivice Vehicle:)                                                            •                         •
 $~~·pen$.ibn, re~r miJl~l-liilk with coil ~prings (Not available·with (9C 1) Polip_
                                                                                   e VeJ1ide.- oi• {5W4) -sp·eciijl
 Sef\iice Vehicle.)
 Ste.erir,g;. pow.e t
 Brakes, .4 '7wheel ahtilock, 4-wheel disc ·w ilh DURALIFE rotors (Nofavallable With (~C1}P.o.li_
                                                                                                c;e· V~tiicle.)
 Exhalist. ·single.sysfein, .sit1g1e~:riutlet
 Me.chahical Jack with .tools
 Wheel; ·tull~:size ·spare, ·17i• (13.2 cm) steel (Not available with (9C;1) Police. Vehicle:}
 Tire,.spare:P2.65l70R~7 alF-season, blackwall (Not available With ($C1) Police Vehicle or'.(5W4) special
 Service Vehicle;)
 lire·carrler, lockable :outside spare, winch-type mounted under frame at rear
 A9f1ve aero shutters 1 upper {Not available with (9G 1.) Police Vehicle or (5W4) Special .Service Vehicle;)
                                                              or
 Fa.scia, Jrqnt (Not ·available with (9C1) Police .Vehicle· (5W4).Special·Service Vehicle,.)
 L~ggageTack side rails, roof-mounted, Black; standard (Available with .(5W4) ,Special .Services Vehfcle.)
 A~sist·steps, B!ack
 lnteliiBe~m. automatic high beam on/off (Deleted when (9C1) PoHce Vehicle is ordered:)
 H~a.ql_amps, LEb
 Tail.lamps, LED
 Mirrors, _outside ~eated. power~adjustable, manual-fold Ing, body_
                                                                  "color
 Mirrpr cc1ps, botjy-color                                     ,
 Glass, qeep4inted (alLwinc:fows, except light-tinted glass on windshield and driver- and front passenger;.
 side gl~ss}.                      •       •
•.Gla!;;s, a:cousJic,, lamin~ted
 Glas$, whidshielq sh~pe b~nd
W_
 ir)dshl~Jd, sol.ar !:lbspr!)ing
W/per.s, front hitennitteri_t, R_
                                ainsense.
W/pe:r, r.~ar intermittent. with washer
                                      I
 Door h;mdles,.body-c_olor
Llftg~t~. r~ar rr:ianu?I
                                                                   -
Audio M$1~.m f~~lure, 6-spe_
                           aker .syst_
                                     (;lm
Blµeto.oth for phpn_ e personal.cell phone ~onne:qtivity to. vehicle. audio system
5G .Wf..Fi Hotsp.ot capable (Requires (UE1) OnStar. Terms antj limitations apply. See onstar.com or
deal~r for details;)



                                                                                                                         P32
Wi-Fi Hotspot capaple (Requires (U~1) Qi1Star. Tenns and limi.tations apply. See .qnstar.Qom at.dealer
for details.)
SfriusXM, delete
Wli·eless AjJple CarPlay/Wireless AridroidAuto
Seat tdm, cloth ;
Seat'adjusterj driver 8~way_l)OWEir
Seafadjuster, front passengef'6~way power
~teat adjuster. driver 2·~way powei lumbar
Seat aqfuster, front passenger-2~way powet lumbal'
Seals; ~econ~·row'60/40 split-folding bench, n1amiaJ
Se,als; third row 60/40 spliHoldihg bench, manual (Not available witl1 (9C:1) Police Package o·r (5W4)
Special_Servl_    ce Pac;:kage,)                                                              .. .
                                                                                                                     •
Floor-:cov~rfng, .BJaq~ rubt?e1faed vinyl (Detet~d w~en .(830) floor covering js ~rdered.)
El~ctrpnic Precision Shift
steerin_g ,cdlun1n lock-. ele:Ctrjc~i
steering :co.lumh, manml_i'.tHtand·tel~scopJ9
Steerin.g W.hEH:ll, vinyl
$teer,ng W.h~el ·controls, mo~mted ·au.dio;- Driver Information Center, Adaptive C.ruise Control, Forward
C611isfc5ri Alert.fol.lowing gap _bt.tUon and he~te·o steering whe.el (when equipped)                         •      ••
Driver.
         lnfc).i"malfon C~nte'r, 11 qii:igori~l -rril!lti-color digital disp!aY
                                     11

                                                                             .

Door loqks·, power p_rograinh,~bleWith IOG~o.u~ protection. AuJq Lock.out is di5.~bl¢d on ·driver door:
l<eyless Qpc,4n includes·axtende,d r~lig¢ B,emot~ Keyless Entry
Windpw,.pqwei' with··driver Express·-Llp/Down
Window; pow~r with fr'ont p.~sse.nger E~pres$.,Ur;/DoWn
Windows,_power with rear Expres$-DoWil
Adaptive Cruise.-Coritrol. (Not ~vailable with (9C1) Police Vehicle or (5\1\/4) Speciijl S.ervic~ V$hicleJ
Ut1iversal Vehjde-Mo(lule. . . .
Theft~deterrent system; ·eJeqtri¢~1. unauthorized eiitty
USB port.ii, 2 type•:Aarid C, ch.arge .and .d.ata., loc~ted rn1 front console
l..JSB'ports; 2 type-C, -~harge::Mly, lotat~d ih th1rd row
Aii; conditionii1·g, fri-zone qUlori'\iltic clim~te. co_   ritrol w1t11 hidhiidual ~limcite s~tting~ for driv~r. right frQnt'
passengei· ai1d ·rear .seat otcllpahts
Akcortditloriing, rear
Defogger~ iBar-window electric
Power o·ut1.ets, _  2; 120-volfi located on the·rear .◊f the centel'console and_i·ear' cargo are.1;1 (NOTE: When
ordered with (9C1) Polic~ Package or (5W4)Special Service Package,,tlJe location of the outlets will
change from the r~~ir of th~ qeht~r ~onsdle tQ the rear of the center s~at.)
Mirror, inside i:eaivieW manual_d,;iy/night
Vi$ors, drlv¢r anc:I frontpa_    $se_nger illumingt~d vanity mirrors, ~lidin_g_
A$si.s t h,andle.~,: ov~rl.1ea.d, driver ·and·fto_nt.pilsseri_   ger, .lotatect in headliner
As&ist ha.ndles, front passenger-A~pillar.ahd.:seGolid row OlHboard B-pilla,r



                                                                                                                                P33
Lighting, ,j11teriorw_  ith .doJyie light, .!'.frivei•- mid passeng~r-~ide door switch with d~li;iyed ~ntry feature,
cargo lights, door handle or Remote Keyless E1itry:-activated illuminated entry and rnap Hgllts in frot)t
and.. second. seat·positlons.
                    .,   . -·    -

Cc1_rgo m~nagemen,t system ·(N-◊t-availabie with (9G1) Police VehJcle or.(5W4) $pedal_Service Vehicle;)
Qhevrol_   et o·on_n~ded 'Access capa_          ble (Subj€:lct to terms. ·see onstar.com .or ·dealer for ctetails.) (Not
avaifabl~ wiih (9G1) Poiic$ Vehlcl~ br (oW4) Special S,~tviceVenicle;) • • • •                           •             '
Froiit Peqestrian ·_  and Bi~ydist Braking (Deleted when (9-C 1) Poliqe Ve_hiqle is prd~re_d.)
l_nt~rsec~ipn Autpi'natic·Emergen·py S_raki11g iil\e!'sectlon alert, bi'aking (Deleted when (~C1) Polrce·.
Vehic.le.is ordered.)                                                          •       •                           •
E;nhanc~~ Automatic Ei1iirgei1cy Braking (Not available with (9C1) Police Vehicl~ or(5W4) Speci_al
S~rvlc~ Vehicle~)
Rever~e A~.iomatjc Braking (Not available with (9C1) P:once Vehicie or.(5W4) Special ·seivice Vet1icle1)
StabiliTra·_ k_
              ; stabil\ly control system with brake assist, includes fraction contfol
Airbags,·Frontaf alr~ags for driver and front ou.tboard paSSQllger; Seat,;n1ounted side~impact airbags fhr
clrivEk ;i_nd-front Olttboard p~ssenger;-H~ad~CllJta_in ai~bags for" all rows in outboard seating positions.
(Always use i3iifat pelt$ a'nd child restraints. Cl1ildren. a·fe ¢afer when·properly ·sect.ired in ar<:far.seii.t in ·
the··app1-orfriate·_¢hild resfrairtt. SeeJhe OWnef'$ Manual foi:-niore inforn,a_         iipn.)        •         •       .
 Fr~inl ·outboard Passenger Sehsing System for frontal ou'tb:oard-passe·nger a_                irbag_(Alway_s u·se_~eat
 bel.ts and child restrttints. Childreri are safer when properly s~~lired iii a rear seat-in the appropriate
.chilq restp3.int.~ee the owner's Manual for mOf(:) inf~rmation;)
 r{ill-Start·Assist(Not avail~bl_e with (~Ct) P91lce Vehicfe or (5W4) Sp_            ecial Services Vehicle,)
 Oti~tar Services 9apable (C>n 4WD mo_del, ·deleted.when (UbA) On_                  Star dea9tivated is ordered.:-See
 cmstar.com fordetails and limitati_ons; Seryic'ef&_vary by mod~LS~rvice plan requir¢dJ                              •
 Enhanced Aufom.atlc Parking Assist (NotJwaih;1ble With (9C1) Police Vehicle or (5W4) Special Service
 Vehicle'.)
 HD SlfrfoundVisiori" -
 Rear 't:an1era Washer"
 Rear Gross Traffic Brakihg.(Oelefed-wl1en (9C1} PoliceVehicle is·.ordered!)
Rear Pedestrian Alert
°Side.Bicyclh:;t Alart _(Delefed wher1 (~C1) Police Vehicle is ·ordered.)
Forward Collision Alert (Deleted when,(9_C1) Police Vehicle is ordered.)
Safely Alert-Seat (Not avatlable with (9C1) ·Police Vehicle or.(5W4)Sp~cial Service Vehicle.)
Rear ·Seat _  Reminder
Bu_ckle to Drive prevents vehicle from being·shifted out.of Pa·rk ui1til driver s·eat IJelfi~-fastened; .tidles .
ottt a_fter 20 s~conds and encourages seat-belt wse, can be turne.d on and off in·Settings or Teen Driver
;nenu (Defaultf!d off. Feat11te can be..turned (m h,- the infotainment menu.)                      ••
D.o. or locks,.
          ..    rear c;hild seGurity,·manual
             . ..            .               •.

LATCH·system(Low,er Ancho{s t1nd Tetl)ers for ¢HJldren), for child restraintseats lower anchors and
to·p teltfoi·s located hi all se,cotid-row ·i;e~ting position~. top. teth~rs· lpc-*ed in tiiir4.row s~ating pqslfion~
Teen Oriver a co.n~gurable feature :th.at lets you _activate c·ustomiwb.le v'eliiqle settii1gs_:assc:i(?iated with a
key fob, to-h¢Jp.encpurage safe driving-behavior. lrcan limit ·certain available Vehicle features, -~i"nd it
prevents certain saf~ty. systems from b.ein~ tw'ned off. An in-vehicle r'epotf card _gives you information
on
 . .driving
       .      ha~its
                  . . and
                        . ·he.Ip!) yc;m to c;pnt{nue
                                           .         to ¢oach your n~w
                                                                     • . • driver
                                                                            .

T.ite Pr¢ssur~ Mo.nitoring Sy~tem auto let1r11, inqludes Tire Fill Alert (cloes noLapply to spare _       tire)
Warnih~Jtones headlattip o"n_, driver ;;ind right-frontpassenger seat bell unfasten and_turn signal on

                                                                                                                             P34
OnStar Basics (OnStar Fleet '?a~ics for Fleet)" Drive "confidently with core On Star seivices including
rer'note com·mands, built-in voice assistance, real-time traffic arid navigation, and Automatic Crash
Response to help if you're in need. (Requh-es (UE1) On-Star. On Star Basics ·includes remote
c6mma1ids, Navigation, Voice Assistance, and Automatic Crash Respo11se, for eligible vehicles with
compatible software. On Star Basics is standard for 8 year.s: OnStar pl~n. working ·electrical system, Gell
receptfon and GPS signal required. OnStar lii1k~ to emergency services. Service coverage varies with
conditions and location. Service availability, features and functionality vary by device and software
version. See onstar.com for details and limitatloris.)




                                                                                                              P35
                                National Auto Fleet Group
                                             • Pl•l ■ l ,n !ti ll h••••••• of W ■ 111• 11wll l•
                                     400 Auto hontor Drlva, WauonvlU1, CA 8 6076
                                         fBfiB ) 8BB•81571!, • ( 831) 48D•B4~7 FIIX
                                         Ftoo N•$lon 11 IA~~~fl ■ 11 ,~rqup.com


11(25/2025                                                                      Quote ID: 33665 R1
12/1/2025 Re~Configured
                                                                               Order Cut Off Date: TBA
Mr She~ Pursell
Sacmmentq Metropolitan Fire District
4425 budley 81yd.
McClellan, California, 95652
Dear Shea Pursell,
Natlonal Au~o Fl,eet Group is pleased to quote the following vehicle(s) for your _co_
                                                                                    niMeration.
Six {6) New/Unused (2026 Chevrolet Tahoe (CK1Q706) 4WD 4dr Commercial,) and delivered to your specified
location, each for
                         0!1e Unit      One Unit          Total%         Extended           Total Savings
                          (M~RP)                         Savings          Unit;s (6)
  Contract Price       $63,917.00 $61,678.09             3.503%      -$370,068.52              $13,433.48
  Tax (7.7500 %)                         $4,780.05                                  $28,680.30
  Tire fee                                  $8.75                                         $52.50
  Total                                 $66,466.89                                $398,801.32

- per the attached specifications.
This vehicle(s) is available under the Sourcewell Contract 091521-NAF. Please refer~nce this Contract number on
all purchase orders to National Auto Fleet Group. Payment terms are Net 20 days after receipt of vehlc_
                                                                                                      le.
Thank you in advance for your consideration. Should you have any questions, please do riot hesitate to call.
Sincerely,




Jesse Cooper                                                Standard Quoting Department
Account Manager                                             Account Manager
Email: Fleet@NationalAutoFleetGroup.com                     Fleet@NatlonalAutoFleelGroup.com
Office: (855) 289-~572                                      (855) 289-6572
Fax: (831) 480-8497


                                                         ©
                                                         TQ'VOrA




                                                                                                                  P36
            Purchas.e Order Instructions & R.esource'S
        Once units are scheduled bY.. OEM~ no cancellations are acce12ted



In order to finaH:ze your purchijse please submit this purchase packet to your
gover~ing body for a purchase order approval ~nd submit your purchase order in the
following way:


                          Email: Fleet@NationalAutofleetGrQuJ:!;.eo_m
                          Fax:      (831) 480-8497
                          Mail: NaUonal Auto Fleet Group
                                    490 Auto Center Drive
                                    Watsonville, CA 95076


       We will send a courtesY, confirmation for your order and a W~9 if needed.




                                     Additional ResQurces .

Learn how to track your vehicle:                            www.NAFGETA.com
Use the upfitter of you.r choice:                     www~NAl:Gf)artner.com •

Vehicle Status:                            ETA@NationaiAutoFleetGi'OUP-.COm

General Inquiries:                        Fleet@Nationa1AutoFle&tGroup.com



For general questions or assist~nce please contact our main office at:


                          1-855-289-6572
                                                                                   P37
Vehicle Configuration Options
EMISSIONS·

Code        OescripUon
FE9         Emissions, Federal requirements
ENGINE

Code    Descrtption
L84     Engine, 5.3L Ec;oTec3 V8, (STD)                        I

TRANSMISSION
                                                         -.
Cod~        Description                         .
            Transmission, 1o~speed_aµtomatic, eleGtronically controlled with overdrive, includes
MHU         Traction Select System includinQ tow/haul                                                    l   I



AXLE

Code    Description
GU5     Rear axle, 3.23 ratio
PREFERRED EClUIPMENT GROUP

Code        Description
1f=L        Commercial Preferred Equ.ipm·ent Group, includ~s i,tandard equipm~nt
TIRES

Code        Description
xcs      Tires,
              . 275/55R20SL
                   •· .
                            all-season,
                            .      . . .blackwall, Firestone Firehawk PLJrsuit
SEAT TYPE

Code·       Description
AZ3         Seats, front 40/20/40 split-bench, (STD)
SEAT TRIM

Code        Description
H1T         JetBlack, .Cloth seat trim
                            ..

RADIO

Code        Desc1•iption
URW         Audiq system, 17.7" diagonal advanced color L_
                                                         CD display, (STD)
ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT



                                                                                                   P38
Ce>qe .
                 --
                      P~sctipt.io.n
                                ..
                      ld~ntifi~t for P.oUce·Packi:19¢ Vehic:le, (Also:iricludes.(NPO) aqtive·sin91e~speeotr~n$fer
9C1                   case;f                  •      •       •                                              •
            -·
                      1FL s·~tety P~(ckag~, in'cJuqes...(U..Et;Jf Forw~rd Qo!lisioJ1 Ale;rt, (U.KM) EnhancecJ L:~·ne·Ke·eµ
                      A$sist with Latie:Dep~r~ur~ Wa,>n.ing; {U.Kl).Biii1~Zoile ·Sleetil1tfAssist; (UH'() Ai:itomatic .
POA                   Emergericy Bra.king; (UFB.) Rear Cr'Qss Ti•affiG 13raking, (UKT) Front Ped~strian an~
                      Bi.4y~list Braking; (CTB) ln.t~,s~c(ion Attt◊il'f~tic Emerge:ncy Braking, (UOW) $ide B!cyclist
                      Alert, (DRZ) Rea.r carri~rfl Mirror ano (T05f iri.teHiBfiani headlamps
                      Remote Keyless Entry P~iGkage, includes 4 a'd(Jitldhal tr~n'smltl~rs,·NOTE: prqgrarnrning ·_o f
AMF                   remotes· ii; at customer's expense. Programrnin~. remotes is not a warranty ·e>ij)ense
vo·3                  Oooiihg system, extra capacity
K3W                   Battery,.•900 cold-cranking amps with 95 amp hour rating
                      Battery, auxiliary, 760 cold-cranking amps with'1o amp hour rating, (packaged.behind left
K6K
                      re;ar c~rno a,r~a p.~n~I)                                         ,        •
k.X4               A!ternatori
                    .        . 2.
                               . 5-.0.amps
                                      .
V76              ' Rec~)V~ty hook~;· ?. frotit,. framtHTIOliilt~t,1. aiac.~
RC:1                  Skiq plate, fr9nt
J55                   Br!}ke.s,ys.tem, .he:avy duW with front Br,~mbo calipers an.d 16'; frontrotors          -·   -

                      c.~pless.Fuel Fill
RNQ                   Whee.I, ft1ll:-$ize· spare, ;matching 20" :(50.8 ·cmfsteel wh~el wilbO\Jt center·cJ1p
RAV                   Tire;·spr;ireZ75/5qR:20 ail-season·, b)ackwall, Fire.stone Firehawk Purs~it
                      Fat5cia, front high;;appto~cl:l angle, with recovery hoc,k·.openings, bU.l does not inclu<;ie
WUA                   hoqks                             •                                 • ••
V53                   LuggagEfr~ck· siqe ra:ils, ~alete
TQ5                   ltitelliEJ.e·~rn, auloniaJic high beam on/off
                      E)(teriof ornanientation de.lete, (fronr& rear Chevrolet bowties will reiilain)
ATD                   ~eaJ del~.te, third row ·pa~s.e1Jger                                                             •
VZ2                   Speedorneter qalibr'ation
                      lristr~1rn~nta(ion; a11alog, with ~~i1ifieq 140 ,n.ph speeqorneter,codometer With trip i;>dometer;
                      engtne hbur meter.Juel level, voltmeter, enghie temI:>erature, oll pressu1'e an·d tachometer
AX2                   Key, ·unique                               - -

arv                   Remote start
K34                   Cruise c6ntrol, electronic With,se·t and resttine sjJeed
                      Thelt7deterr~nt syMem, vehiclej PASS~Key Iii
LILJA                 DlsplawaufomaUc occupant rienslng
                      Power supply, 50-athp, power supply, auxiliary•battery, passenger compartment wiring
-       '
                      harness
                      Power supply, 100-amp, auxiliary battery, rear electrical center
                      Power supply, 120-amp, (4) 30"amp circuit; Primary battery,.rday .confrolled; passenger
,,_
                      comp.arti:nent hai•1iess wiring                           •
DRZ                   R~a'r Cam.era Mirrqr, iasfde rearview 1;1Uto~dimming, with full 9.amera.di~play
UKT                   Hont Pedestrian and Bicyc.list Brei.king
OTB                   Intersection Automatic Emergency BrakfnQ, intersection alert,:braking


                                                                                                                           P39
UHY         Atitomatic En1~rgen·cy Br~king
 -          Seat b_~lts-, ~-point, -.~II se£tting positions ·
            A dfot~ 'Hi.II Hold Assist
 -
 U_l(l      Blind Zohe'Steerli1g Assist -
              •   •   1.   •   ••   - :•   •   •   •   .•   ....




 UFl;3      R~ar Cros~ Tt'affic Brakil'1g
 uow        S.i_
               d_e" Biqy'cli~t A_lert .
 U.KM       Lahe K~ep A~~lst; with Lan~ -□~partu1:e .Waming, ~nhalic:ed
 U_b7      _Re~r Parking·A~slst
 UEU        Forw~rd Collision Alert
            Prot~~tedj\ile, allpw~ ·vehlc!e eng1n·e· to remain ldlln·g and ·vehicle·immol:>ilized Whil~ FOB is
-          outside vehicle                                                         '   •          •
           Wfri11g, auxilia•ry ·speaker., J;"or up.fitter co·m1ectiori "to front door'ahd wii1"dshielct.pillar
WX7
           speakers .
.eJ3:      Wirliig, grill~ laIT.JpS ang -s1ten speakers
 6J4     • Wiring, horn and siren circuit
 Ul7       Gtound wires, blunt cut cargo area and blunt cut ·console area
T66        Wiring-,p_  rovision, for .outs.ide mirrors·and cargo side mirrors
6J7        Flasiier ·systen:i_. headlamp and ·taillamp, DRLcompafible with .control wire
5JEf       Ca]ibratiqn; talllan-:ip flasher,_Red/White .
 5LO       Ca!ibr~tion; taill~mp flasher., Red/Red
           Ughting, r~d _anq white front auxiliary dome, Red and white· LED.auxiliary dome lamp ls
607        loc~te·d on he_    adlin~r b~tweer1 front row seats. The auxiliary lamp is wired, Independently
           frorn st~ndard dome lamp
           R.ed Left/Re~r Rig~t Wh~l~n LED L:~rnp Pac;:kag~; four ION. light heads motmted lri- front"
6J9        grille and integrated ·outer Edge. Rear Pillar with six:fON light heads. Original exterior D-
          pillar trim shi_pped loose for ve_      hide deco_rnmissio_ning;
T!)3       Lamps, al_ternate flashing Red.& BJue rear comp~rtrnent I.id warning; (visible when· liftgate is-
           open) ~nq c_ontroll~d by n,omentary liffg~te. lll<;iunted s_witQh org·rourid wire                   •
                                                                                -·
5,J3      C~li_brati9;,, $U1v~illa11ce Mode inJeri_or lightin_g
BCV       Lock
             ... : control,
                       , ..  .driver side
                                        -- . auto
                                              . . dam' lock.. disable
                                                               .   •,


.UN9 .    Radio $u·ppression Pa.ckagE;} 1 with groung straps .
          Special_ Pajnt, o_     n~ color', Required with any special p~int"sel~ction. Refet· to individual
TGK
          special paint SEO .codes 'foi' de"lails _on .body..colored non-$heeJ metal parts.
                                                                                                                 --
0.1U      sp_   ecial Paint
          Special paint_. Victory Reci WA 9260;· yictqry Red .p~Jrtte·d parts will be front fascia, rear
5T4.      fascia, tailgate ~PPliql1e, litigate haridle ai1d door handles. s·1ack part~ will.be D~pillar
          applique; rear spoiler, mirrors, uUrasonic park assist sensors and OnStarantenna.
SU.$PENSION PKG

Code         Description
             SuspetJsion Package, _he~vy~duty, polic~~i•.ated., Fu"II iridef>"end~1it suspe,-isfon with
Z~6          monotube dampers,_linear coil springs, 35mm solid front stabilizer bar and 32mm ho.How
             r~ar stabilizer bar
      /




                                                                                                                 P40
WHEEL TYPE

Code     Descriptlm1
PXT      Wheels, 20 11 x 911 (50.8 cm x 22.9 cm) steel
SHIP THRU CODES

Code        Description
            Ship Thru, Produced in Arlington Assembly and shipped to Kerr lndustries·and onto
VPV
            ArliryfJlon Assembly
GVWR
  I




Code        Description
C6G         GVWR, 7600 lbs. (3447 kg), (STD)




                                                                                                P41
2026 Fleet/NQn-Retail Chevrolet Ta.hoe 4WO. 4dr Commerci.al
WIND.OW STfCKER
2026 Chevrolet Tahoe 4WO 4dr Commercial


CODE       MODEL                                                                                                          MS.RP

CK10706    2026 Chev·rolet tahoeAWD 4dr.C6,mn1er_cial                                                                 $5i,~oo.do.


           OPTIONS
FE9                        eq~icjl rcqtilrerilent;s
           chJi~sii:lns, f _                                                                                               $0.00
L8_4 .     E._f.19i!le, 6:~L E~o'lec;i V6, ($TD)                                                                           -$0.00
MHU        l}ansmi_ssion, 10-speed a~1tomaUc, electronlcally conlroi(ed wiih overdrive, includes Trac)ion                    INC-
           Select System including tow/haul                          •
GU5        Rear axle, 3.23 ratio                                                                                           $0.CiO
1FL        t 'q1nm¢rclal Prefe(l'ed Equlpine1it-Groµp, includ~s standard equipnient                                        $0.00

Xe$        Tires, 275/55R20~L i;iit~~easQi1, bl_a~kwf!I( Fir~_sfone Firehawk Pursuit                                         INC
                                                                                                                         '•
           S~_at~. f(ont -40/20/40 split-bench; (STD)                                                                     ' ~0.00"
AZ3
H1T        Jet E.ll~ck, Cloth se:at trim                                                                                   $0.00

URW        Audio system. 17-.7lldia~onal advanced _color.LCD dJsplay, (STD)                                                "$0,00

9C1        ld.enHfiet f9r Police Pack~~ei Vehicle, {Also includes (NP0) active sing(e.0speed transfer case.)               so.oo·
POf\       1FL Safely Package, i11clu~es (WEU)):o~a_       rd C_oiiision Alert; (Ul<M) E11hanced Lane l<ecp Assist      ·$825.M
           with Lane D.wc1rture Warning, (UKI) Bljnd 2on_e $teEiring Al>sist, (UHY) Autornatic.Emergen_cy .
           Br,aklng, (UF$) Rear c·ross Trafijc Eir~~frig, (LJKT) Fro.ht Pe~esirian ahd ·afoyclist ·a raking, (CTf})
           lritet~eci\i9trAulo1J1alic,Emergency Bra~ing, (UOW) ·s ide EljcydistAlei:t; (DRZ.) Rear"Cat)i_~ raMifror
           and (TQ6) lntelllBeam hea~larn"ps
AMF        Re1not~ l<~yltfas Entry Package, inclLfdes ·4 additional lransmil(ei•s, NOTEprogramming of                        INC
                                                                               a
           i"~mot~s is.at customer'~ efpciise. Pr9g~amming r~inotes IS not warranty experrse
           Coolitig                                                                                                          INC
V03        .      . $ystem,
                      .   . extra
                               . capacity
                                       ·.   '•



K3W        Baltery, 900 cold-crankin~ amps wiih 95 amp hour rating                                                           INC

1(61(      Battery, auxiliary, _760 cold-cranking amps with 70 amp hour rating, _
                                                                                (packaged behind leil rear                   INC
           cargo" area pan·e[)
i<X4       AlternaW, 250 .amps                                                                                               INC;
V76        Recov~ry h_(il)K$, 2 (rant, f(a1t1e;1no1Jllte.d, Bbfok                                                            INC·

RQ1        -~kid. P.late, frQhl :                                                                                            INC·

J55        Bi:ake syste·m, he~vy duly with frpnt Brembo c_alipers and 16" front rotors                                       INC

           C_apless F~1el Fill                                                                                               ING

RNQ        Wheel, full-size spare, matching 20" (50.8 cm) steel wheel without center cap:                                    INC'
RAV        Tfre, spare 275i55R20 all-season, blackw~II. FirestoneFlrehawk'Pursuit                                            ING
           Fascia, front tiigh-approacli·angle, witi1 recovery 1100.k openirigs, btit does i10t include hooks                INC.
WUA
\/53.      Luggage.r;:ick side rails, delete                                                                                 INC
Ttl5       lnt~lliBeam, autonuitlChigh p¢am·ontofr                                                                           I.NC
           Exte_
               riqr omarncntation delete, "(front~ re_a.r µhevtolet bowtles will remain)                                     INC.

ATD        _Seat delete, third row pos~er19er                                                                                INC


                                                                                                                                     P42
VZ2     Speedcimeter calibra\ion                                                                                                       INC
        lns~_rutrtimtaljon, an~log, VJiJh GetliJied 1.4Q mpl.l s1>eeaomete1; _odometer:wiih trip o4ometer, {ltigino                    lNC.
        hpqr fueler, (Liel.level, voltm~ier;-engitie: teh1pera!ure, oil pres·si:ire.ai1~ tachometer
AX?.    l<ey, urrque                                                                                                                  · INC·

BTV     R¢il)Ole ~tart                                                                                                                 INC

1<3,4   Cruise C9ntrol, efec::!ronic with set and resume .sr¢ed                                                                        INC .

        Theft-det~m:mt system; veh19i~. PASS-key.Ill                                                                                   INC :

UUA     Display, auiomaiic occupant-sensing                                                                                            INC:
        .Power supply, 50-amp, power suppl~, auxiliary battery, passenger compartment wiring harness                                   11,sc

        Ppw~r suppl_Y., 1O'Q~am1?, auxiliary battery, re~t eleqtrical center                                                           IN_C
        Po~~r..~i:Jpply, 1~0-~~rhp, (4) 30-amp drt4if; _Prin,ary battery; relay coritroll~cf. pa·ssenger                               INc·
        coinpilrtine.nt harn¢s$ wjrin.g_
PRZ     Rear Can:ier'a Mirro1;fo$ide rearvi$WI!!-it~cUmriih1~ . with filll cari1$ra display                                           · INC.

UKT     Fr<:inl Pedestrian. ~qd Bipydist !3ra~ing                                                                                      INC-.

CTB     lnl¢t'$ectio;, Autoni.atip 1:;,nerg·efJCY, Bra.king,:_h1terseclion alert, braking                                              INC·

UHY     Automatic Emergency Braking                                                                                                    lN·c
        ·seal bells, 3-poinl, all sealing posilions                                                                                    INC.
        Active Hilf Hold Assie;t                                                                                                       INC·-
Ul<J    Blind-Zpn~ Steering A~slst                                                                                                     lfl!C
UFB     R~~r CrossTraffici Braking                                                                                                     ING
uow     Side Bicyclist Alert                                                                                                           INC·.
UKM     Lari!'! ~eepA~~ist,·;,vith La_
                                     ne Departur~ Warnln~. .e,:,h_
                                                                 f!nced                                                                INC·
UD7     f{ear Pa"rk_
                   ing Assist                                                                                                          INC·
UEU     Forward Collision Alert                                                                                                        ING,
        Protected °idle, allows vehicle engine to remain idling and vehicle immobilized while             r:-oa ·1s outskle             INC·
        vehicle         •                                     •
WX7     WiJ-Jng, a~~ili;uy speaker.,.For upfitier conn~cfi_ori lo front door and.windshield pillar speakers:                     •$1 Q0.00
ej3_    Wirit\g, griiie laillP~ a11d sireirnpeaker~                                                                                $92.00 •
6J4     Wiricig, t10·rn ,~n~ sir~n ~rcuil                                                                                          $7.5.00
UT7     Groun~l wires, bluntcul cargo ar.ea and blunt cut con_
                                                             sole ar~a                                                                 INC
T66     Wirin~ pro\i!sk>n, for outsld_¢ mlrr9rs and .catgo side, m_
                                                                  lrrors                                                               INC·
6J7·-   Flasher system, Madhiimp and taHlamp, DRL compatible With control wire                                                          INC- .
5J9     Calibration,-taillamp -flasher, Red/\Mlite                                                                                      ING
5LO     Calibration, taillamp flasher, Red/Red                                                                                          INC
ab1     Lightjr.ig; ~ed and wtiite frcit1t au_xiliary g6me, R(!<l.and white LE.b a,uxlll_ary dQm~ l.iil,p i~ 1_o~·at~<;1 _
                                                                                                                         of,      $'10.00
        h~dlirii:fr be!.We.en front (9w -~·eats·: Tlie ~ux!lia.ry !amp.ls wfred.hidep1;inilenlly fr.oh, standard doitYe
        lpnip               .                                   • •         •                 •         •

6J9      Re(J 1,.eft/R~d Rjght Whelen LE~ L~mp P?~kage,'four ION light hea;cls mq,unt~~ In front grille a11d                   .:fl1 ,95_0.00 •
        ·int~·grated_·bu_ter Egge fW<!r Pillar wiih six ION Ugllt heads.· Origin~! e·xterlo°f D-pillar frirn $hipped
         loose for .vehicle decominissionhig.                                                                    •
T53     Lamps; a!t~rnale flashing _~ed ~ Blue rear ~ompai:tmen_t.Ii~ w~r,nlng, .(visible when liOgate Is open)                  • $565.00
        and.boi1ttolled by moinentaiy liftgale Ji1ounted switch or.ground wire
5J3     "calibration, Surveiilance Mode iilte,-ior ligtiting                                                                           INC
!3CV    Lo9k control, driver si_de auto .doorlo9k disable                                                                              INC
UN9     Ra~io Suppres!lii:m Package, wit_h ground straps                                                                          •.$95i00



                                                                                                                                               P43
 TGK          Special .Paint, one color, Required witi1 any special paint selection. Refer to individual special pain!       $0.00
              S~O codes for details on bci~ly colored non-sheet metal parts.
 01U          $peci~I Paint                                                                                                   $0.00

 5T4          Special paint, Victo1y Red WA 9260, Victory Red painted parts will b.e front f~scia, rear fascia,            ·$250.00
              tailgate appliqi.Je, lirtgate handle ·and door handles. Black parts will be D-plll~r applique, rear
              spoiler, inirrors, Liltrasonrc park assist sehsors·and OriStar antenna.
 Z56         ·Suspension Package, heavy.-puty, police0 rated., Full independent _suspension with monotube                      INC'
              dampers, linear coil springs, 35n1m solid front stabilizer bar and 32mm hollow rear stabilizer bar
 PXT          Wheels,·20".x 9" (50.8 cm x 22.9 cm) steel                                                                       INC

 VPV          Ship Thtu, Produced In Arllngtoil Assembly at)d shipped to Kerr lndustri¢s and onto Arlington                   $0.0()
              Assembiy
 CBG          GWJR, 7600 lbs. (31147 kg), (STD}                                                                               $0.00


 Please n_
         ote selected options ove_
                                 rride standard equipment

              SUBTOTAL                                                                                                   $61,~22.00

              Advert/ Adjustments                                                                                             $0,00

              Manufacturer- Destination Chatge                                                                            $2,595.00

              TOTAL PRICE                                                                                                $63,917,00-


 Est City; N/A MPG
 Est Highway: NIA MPG
 Est Highway Cruising Range: NIA mi



Any peifonnance-relatcd calculations.are offered solely as guidelines. Actual unit performance.will depend on your operating
conditioi1s.

                   No.te~-

                   1-- --      - - - - -- - --- - ...




                                                                                                                                       P44
&tandard Equipment

MECHANICAL

Engine, 5'.3L ~coTec3V8 With Dynamic Fu.e l Management; Direct Injection and VariableValvf;:l Timing,
inclqdes ~lumlmnn block construction (355 hp [265 kW] @ 5600 rpm, 383 lb-ft of torque [518 Nm] @
4100-rp~) (STD)                              •
Transmission, 10-spee~ automaUc eleclronically controlled with overdrive, includes Traction Select
System including tow/haul (STD}
Rear axle, 3.23 ratio
Suspenskm, Premium Smooth Ride (STD}
OVWR, 7600 lbs. (3447 kg) (4Wo·models only.)(STD)


EXTERIOR

Wheels, 1811 x 8.5" (45.7 Clll ~ 21.6 Clil) Br_
                                              ight Silver p_
                                                           ainted al,uminqm (STD)
Tires, 265/65R18Slall-season, blackwall (Staiidard with (RCV) 1811 Bright Silver painted aluminum
Wheels only.) (STD)


ENTERTAINMENT

Audl_                r
     o sy~tem, 17. diagonal advanced colqr LGD display with Goo.gle built-in compatibility (select
service plan t'equired, terms an~ limitations apply), including navigation c~fpabiHty, connected apps,
personalized profiles for each driver's settings, Natural Voice Recognition and Phone Integration (STD}
 •   A   •   -   -       •                      '                 •




INTERIOR

jseats; front 40/2_0/40 split-bench {STD)I


ADDJTIONAL EQUIPMENT

Keyless start, push button
Automatic Stop/Start _
                     (Not available with (9C1) Police Vehicle or (5W4) Special Service Vehicle.)
Engine control, stop/start system disable button, non-latching
Engine air filtration monitor-
Fuel., gasoline, E15
Transfer case, active, single-speed, electronic Autotrac does not include neutral. Can·not be dinghy
towed
Differential,
         . .mechanical
                 . .     limited-slip
4-whe.el drive
Air filter, heavy-duty
Cooling,_external engine oil cooler, heavy-duty air..to-oil integral .to di•iver siqe of
                                                                                       .. .radiator
Cooling, :auxiliary transmissioil oil cooler, heavy-d_uty air-tosoil           ...............ca:-~




                                                                                                          P45
B~tt~ry, 730 .9old-cranl(ing a_mp$. with 80 -~mp. h_      our r1;iti'r1g (Nqt .availabl~-with (901) Po_Oce Package or
(5W4) Specii~I Service Package_:)
Ali~rriator, .220 •iimps •(Not _av.ail able with (9C'1 )' Police Vehiofe or (5W4) SpeGial Seivi~•e V¢hiole_.).
TtaHe:riog equip_111ent includes trailefing hi°tch platform, 7::wir¢·harness with lndepei1denJ fu$ed trailering
circLlits-rmited fo a 7.,way com1ectora11d 2" trailering receiver
Trailer sw~y control (Nol available.with (9C1)' Police Vehicle or.(5W4}Spe_cial Service Vet1ic'le.)

Susperision, front coil-over-shock with ·stabilizer bar (Not available with (9C1) PoHce·vehicle or(5W4)
$p~ci~\' Servic~ V~hicleJ                                •                   •    •                   •
S~1sperisi_
          9n; r~a:r ml!lti-link.withcqil springs (Nol available with (9C1) Pofice Vehio.le o_
                                                                                            r (5W4) SpeciaJ
Sel1/J¢e\lehide,)                  •      • •     •         •        • • •                  :    • •      •
S_
 te:~rjng·;·power
Brake.&, 4:-whEiel ariiilock, 4".wh~el:.disc with O\JRALIFErotpts (Not avan~_ble yvi,th (9.C1 )' Pol_
                                                                                                    iceV~hide~)
                le.systern,·single-c>'u~let .
Exh;:ius_t;'sing_
Mediahic~.t Jiiok wittf tools_
                            r
y\/hflel, f~ll-siiEf:spare, •1 (43':2 cm) steel (N_ot a~ailqble' with '(9C1) Police yehicl_
                                                                                          e.)
Tire, spare.P265/70R17 a11;;s$ason, plac_    kwall (Notavailable with (901) Pollo~ Vehicle 9r (5W4) Special
Service Vehicle.)
Tir~.carder, lockable ·outside spare; Wihchc.type mounted und~r frame a_t rear
Active· aero shutters, upp¢'r (NoUwailable with (9C1) Police Vehicle -at (5W4) Special'Servlce Vehicl~;)
Fascia, front (Not available With (9C:1) Pd.liceVehicl.e '(fr {5W4)':Special S¢1vi~e Vehicle:)
Lugg·~ge tack side rails, roof.;n,ounted, l3lack; stai1dard (Available-with (5W4) ·:Sp~'dal Serui¢es V¢hfol~,)_
Assist steps·, Black
lntelliBeant_autornatic·higti bean, on/off (Deleted when (901.) Police Vehicle i~ orde1:~d..)
Headlamps, LED
Tail lamps, LED
Mirroi-s,·outside heated power:.adjustable_, manual-folding, body.:color
Mirror caps, body-color
Giassi de~p~tihted (~II windows, except light-tinted glass Oil windshleld and driver- a"tid front pa.ssenger-
s1de gl~ss)_
Gllas_
     s; acoustic., laminat_
                          ed

Windshiei~, solar absorbh)9
Wiper~;'fronf ii1termittent1 Rain sense,
Wiper; rear intermittent with .washer
Door hanq!es, boqy-color
Liftgate, rear manual
Aud'io system feat1,1re, 6-speaker system
s·1uetooth for phone personal cell phone connecthiity to vehicle:audio system
5G Wi-Fi Hotspot-c~pable {Requires (UE1) OnStar. Terms and limitations apply. See onstar.comor
{leal~r fqr details'.)                   •



                                                                                                                        P46
                                                                 ..        -
Wi"Fi Hpt~pot-c~apable (Reqliires (IJE1) OnSfar. Term~ and limitations.apply. $~e, onstar.com or d_e·~ler
for d~t~lls:)                          •       •                      •
$itiLisXM1 d¢1ehi
Wireless APPi~-CarPl~y/Wir.i;:Ie$$ .Andro.ii:l l\ufo
S~at.frjrn, cloth.                                                                                  .

seat aojusfor, ~riveC:a:-:way pow~r
Se~t apjt,tster, froht pass~fige(6-way p_
                                        ow.er
$¢at a'i:ljus\~1\. driver 2~v.iay_'poWe'r l~nibar
$eaf~djuster, front·p~sse11gei•:2.,way-. power .lurnb.a r
s:eafo, 'second·row 60/40 spliHoldirig· bench, .m~nual
Seats, third .row 6,0/40 .split.:.folqihg b'erkih; manu·a1 (Not~vailab)e with·(9C.1) Pbl.ic.e :Packclge Qi° (5W4)
Speciafserviee Package.)                 •
Ffoorcovering, Black rubber.iied vi11yl (Deleted wheil (B3Q). floor coverii1i:1. is:ordered.)
Elecfro,iic Precision Shift
Steerin,_g column lock, electrical
Steerihg column, manual tilt ·and telescc;ipic
SteerirJg .wheel, vinyl                                                                        .
Steeri~g wh'eel cohtrols,,mounted·audio, Driver Information Center, Adaptive Cri1ise·Corifrol, Fo1ward
C'.olli.siori Alert foll()11Jing-gap· button an~ heated ~teedng W~f:el (wh_en equ_
                                                                                 ipped)
        nfonnation Center; ·11" di1:1gonal multi-c9lor digjfal d.ispl~y
Driver l_
boor 10:~ks, p,owe.r prqgramml'tble with lo.ck9ut pr:otecilon. Auto Looko_
                                                                         µt .is .di.~ab,l~d.on ~river q_
                                                                                                       oor.
l5ey,less Open lnch,tdes extenqed rfcingeRemote Keyles? Entry
Wind.ow, power w ith driver Express-Up/Down
Wlndo\,1,1, :power w ith front P.as·se1}ger E)(pre~s-Up/Down
Wind9ws., ,powe.r w(lh'rear Expr~ss-Down                ..     .

Adaptive Cruis({ C.qntrol (Not avaHpble with (~C1). Poli~~ Vehicle or ($W4) .Special SeNic.e Vehiple~)
Universal
 . ·.·. . .. Vehicle
  •. ,       .     . ..Modufe
                       .   .

Theft-deterrent system, ·electri~al, unautho_rize9 13nlry
~SB port~j 2 type-A and .C, ch?lrge. and dc!t.a, ·1ocfile:d .on front console
USB ports., ·2 type_
                   - 9 1 charge-only, l9cated.in third row            .
Air conditioning, hi..z;on¢. automatic climate:control with individll~I climate·$etti'ng~-•fQr driver, rightfront
pa$$etigedrnd'reaf s~af.cj'ccupanls                                  •                       •          •
Air .c~md.itio·nilig, rear
Defogger,-rear-whidow ~l,f:!cti:ic_
Pdwer.'oµUets, ~, 12o~v9lt, lo~t~d on ·the. r~ar 9f the .center t:oi1sqle·and rear qargo are~ (NOTE: W~en
ordered with (9C 1) Pdl!ce P.tfckage oi" (5W4) special S'e1vice.P~qkage 1 the location of thet outlets will
char:ige from the rear of ~he center console to the rear of the center .s·eat.)
Mirror, inside rearview·manual.day/night
Visors, driver and front passenger iilurriii1ated vanity mirrors, slidihg
Assist handles, overheac!; drfver· and fror1t passenger, located in he.adliner
Assisf handles, 'front passenger
                              •
                                 A-pillar
                                    .     and:second
                                                  .. row ou·tboard s;.;pillar



                                                                                                                    P47
 Lightiiig, "hi1eric:itwith cloin~ light ,driver; ,Hid J>assenger-sid_ e dde>t switch Wi_lh ·del_aye_cf en.try f~~ture,
9_  q1J10 lights; door ha.ndle cir·R~111ofe Keyle&s Entry~~ct.iva.ted illuminated e_nh-Y and·rnap Hghts in fr:ont
aild.s.econd seat posftio,is
Ca_rg? ·rnariagenierit system_(Ncit"avallable with (9C1) Po.lice Vehicle or (5W4) Spedal Service -Vehicle;)
Chevrolet ¢.oiinected Acee~~ capable '.($t..i!:Jjed to t~rrijs. ·see ohstancom or dealedofdetails:) (Not
available
       .   . witli (~C>1} Polic~ Vehicle,or.(5W4). $pecial S~rvi_     ceVehiclR)                                ••
 Front P~qestri~_n.and 13icyc'Iis_   t Braking (P~leted when .(9C·1) P'olice Vehicle .i_s ordElJed.)'
 Ir1ters~ctl9n Automatic Emerg~ncy Brqking interseption .ale1t, ·hra,king (Deleted when ($C1) Police
V~hic!~l
  .
             ii(otd~re(L)
                        .
                                          •         •                                                              •
Enh~hc~d A~l<?triatlc Emerg~ncy B1'aking (Nonwailable Witl1 .(9_            C1) Polic~ Vehicle 9r (5V\/4) Speciai .
.Servfo~ Ve.hide,)                                                 ..
 Revers·e.A0fo111atic Braking·{Notavailahl~ with (9C1r PoliGe Vehicle-or (5W4) Special service Vehicl~_                 ~).
StablliTr~k; stability conti:61 sy~tej11.wilh brake as$ist incll1.des·.tracliori .control
Airbags, _Froiital airbags for driver atidJront outho~td pa$sengE)r; Seat-mounted ~tc(e:.frnpaqt-~frba·gsfor
driver and front ol.itbqard passenger; Hea_        d-Qtirtain ·airbags for all rows it1 o(itboard se.~firig positions
 (Alway~ use seat Qe1i~:a_1id :child re~t.i:aints, Children a_re·~afer-When properly s.~c!Jred ·ii1 a·rear ~eat in
the:apj?.r()priate:child restraJiit; :see the Owners M~nJ1al fc:irn1ore tnforir.-~don.)._
 FrohUnjtbO:ard Pas~erjg~r sen~Jlig sys,~m fqr frontal nutlioard passenger- airpag (Always use seat·
bel_  fa .and ch lid restraints. Children are. .$afei· when prt?perly_-s~cured 111 a rear $eat in the appropriate
child restraint. See the Owner's Manu_al for more information.)
 rlill ,StartAss1sf(Not available with (9C1) Police Vehk:le or (5W4} Special Services.Vehicle.)
 On Star Services capable {On 4WD mQ~el, deleted when (UDA) On Star deactivated is ordered, :-see
orislatc<?m .for qeJails and limitations. Servl_c~s vary by mo~~L :~ervice p!an reqµir~d.)
 Enhanced.Autom_atic-P?rklng Assi$.L{Not available with (901) Poli.ce Vehic_             le qr (5W4) Sp~cial ~i"ervice
Vehfole.)                                                                                                •           •
HD Surtoi,md Vision
R_eai'" Gamer~ Washer
Rear Cros_     s Ti·~ffic·Hr~king _(D¢.l.etE3_d when {9C1) Police.-V~hi_    cle is ordered.)
          -

Rear Ped~str'ian Alert
Side. BfoyclistAlert (Deleted when (9C 1) Polii;:e·Vehicl_          e is o_rq_ered.)
Fqtward Collisioti Alert (G.el~ted wlj~h (9C1) Pdlic~ V~hicle is o_             "rdered:)
Saf~ly Al~!1S~at (Notavailable with (80C1) Polip¢Vehicle or (5W4):Spe_ci~I {3ervice Vehicle.)
Re~r"$eat Re.n1inder
Buckle foDrivfl pre.v~nts-v.ehi¢IeJrom ~eirig shifteq ouf qf P;:fr)< until driver $·eat belt is fastehed;·times
mil after ·2_ () s~ccmds and encotfrages seat belt use, cc1·n be tuf1ied oi'i and off in' $etting'~·:or Te~n Driver
menu (befaul(ed off. Feature can be turned·on fn the info.taihment menu~)
Door locks, rear child securlty1 manual
LATCH system (Lower_Anchors,and Tetherslor"CHild1'en), for cliild restraint seats lower anchors,and
to,p tethers_Ioc,c;tieg in,!111 se,<;ond_::row seating posiUcm~. top·tethers loc~ted ih thfrd .row seating _posiifons_
Te'r~n Driver~ configura~le fe~ture:th~t Iets_          yo.u..activate cu.stomizable vehicle settings_associated with ~-
k_~y fol;>, l0.·h_~lp :e1icdu_riilge·s~ff) grivlrig ~e_havior. It can lirnit c~rtain availabl.~ v~li_id~ features, a_
                                                                                                                    nd i"t •
preveri.ts ce_i1ai_  n saf~ty systems.from .being fu"rn_ed off. An i11·-vehi9le'·repOrt cal'd gives you information
on drivlng habits and helps yoLLto·continue to· coach your i1ew .di"iver
Tlre Pressure Monitoring.System -auto learn, includes Tire FillAlerf(does 11ofappiyto spare tire)
W!ln~ng_tones headlamp.on, driver and right,.front passeng~r seat belt unfasten and turn si_                   gnal Otl

                                                                                                                              P48
O_nStar Basics (OnSt~r Fleet Basics for Fleet) Drive cohfid$ntly with core Ori~tar ~~1vices including
remote cornmai1d~. built-it1 voice assistance, i'e~Ftin1e traffic arid navigation, and Autornatic.C.rash
Respo11se to. help if you're in need, (Requires (UE1) bnStar. OriStar Basics _includes remote
commands, Navigation, Voice·Ass{stance·, and Automatic Crash Respc:mse, for eligible vehicles with
compi=ltible softwate. OliStarBasics is st~hdard fo·r 8 years; ·011Star pl~n. working electrical sy~tE:Jrn, cell
reception and GPS ~ignal required. On~tar links to erilefgency services. Service coverage varies with
conditions and locatior1. Service availability, features and functionality vary by device and software
version . See onstar.com "for details and .limitations.)




                                                                                                               P49
