Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
Tuesday, September 5, 2023 - 6:30 p.m.

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Lefkovitz called the regular meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Other Board
members present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano (arrived at 6:59 p.m.), Alfred Brown,
Harold Fong (joined via Zoom at 7:01 p.m.), Heather Davis, Bina Lefkovitz, and Joanne
Ahola.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Acting
General Counsel Elizabeth Linton; Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer;
Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White; Executive Directors Michael Kast, Xanthi
Soriano, and Jerry Jones; Director Shanine Coats, and Executive Assistant Wende
Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Ahola led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

The following individuals made public comments regarding labor negotiations: Sean
Frame and Stevie Klusman, Labor Relations Representative (CSEA). Terryl Wheat (via
Zoom) made public comments to thank SCOE staff for their support during the Chalk it
Up Event as well as comments about negotiations.

B. Employee Organizations

Tara Degg, President of CSEA Chapter 480, provided an update on negotiations.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. No Minutes



09.05.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          1
4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to adopt the agenda as presented by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee
Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Not Present at Vote: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Fong

5. Official Correspondence

A. No Official Correspondence

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

LEADERSHIP
In mid-August, at the California County Superintendents Academy, Jerry Jones shared
best practices and valuable information about Disaster Recovery with 13 new County
Office of Education Superintendents. Jerry was joined by technology colleagues from
the San Bernardino and Butte County Offices of Education. The cyber-attack prevention
presentations and other technology updates were highly informative and well received.

On August 23, SCOE announced that Jeremy Meyers will be leading the Sly Park
Environmental Educational Center as its new Director. He joins us from Black Oak Mine
Unified where he was Superintendent. To support this transition, Coleen Johnson will
serve as interim Director. Both bring years of leadership and school site administrative
experience to the Center.

Also in August, we celebrated five graduates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School. Thank
you, Board President Lefkovitz and Vice President Brown, for being present to show
your support.

On August 25, we honored and celebrated 14 Sacramento County 2024 Teachers of
the Year and announced the two county winners: Jamie Davis, a 4th grade teacher at
Union House Elementary School (Elk Grove Unified School District) and Donja Harding,
a History and Social Studies teacher for 6th–12th grades at Leroy Greene Academy
(Natomas Unified School District). Both teachers will advance to the statewide
competition where five teachers will be chosen as California Teachers of the Year.
Thank you, Board President Lefkovitz, Vice President Brown, and Trustees Ahola,
Corona Sabeniano, and Davis for joining us and being in partnership to honor our best
teachers throughout our county.


09.05.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           2
BUILDING PARTNERSHIPS
We are moving forward in our design process to launch a county-wide initiative focused
on improving literacy outcomes for students. With input from and in collaboration with all
13 district superintendents and our community, we will launch a year-long community of
practice for LEA teams. We will seek to engage, learn, and share with one another
focused on the development and implementation of collaborative systems of teaching
and learning, partnerships, programs, and support services that promote reading and
literacy success for all learners within our county. We will also build out additional
elements of this initiative focused on family and community engagement,
communications, and CBO partnerships to enhance and deepen the impact of this work.
To help design these elements, we will conduct empathy interviews with LEA literacy
leads to identify existing strengths, resources, and needs. Data gathered will guide our
focus, ensure that we are responsive, and help us identify key partners to enhance our
shared vision for literacy in the county. On Wednesday, October 4, we host our
Sacramento County School Boards Association dinner at 5:30pm. Our keynote speaker
is renowned literacy expert, Dr. Tracy White Weeden. On October 5, we will hold the
first of our five Communities of Practice.

UPCOMING EVENTS
Please join us for Back to School Night at Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School on
September 20. A BBQ meal prepared by our Culinary Arts students will be available at
5:30 p.m.

On October 4, the California Dyslexia Initiative is hosting a professional learning
network to give educators the opportunity to collaborate, share knowledge, and learn
from leading experts presented by SCOE in partnership with the California Department
of Education (CDE), the California Collaborative for Educational Excellence (CCEE),
and the California State Board of Education (SBE).

B. Recognition of the October 2023 Employees of the Month - Xanthi Soriano

Marina Diosdado-Corral, Financial Analyst, Financial Services Department, was
recognized and honored as SCOE Classified Employee of the Month for October.

Jessie Storrs, Teacher, El Centro Jr./Sr. High School, was recognized and honored as
SCOE Certificated Employee of the Month for October.

7. New Business – Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola



09.05.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           3
B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White announced that nine students will be
awarded diplomas, including three candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. Senior
Extension, one candidate from Cordova Lane Senior Extension, two candidates from El
Centro Jr./Sr. High School, two candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension,
and one candidate from North Area Senior Extension.

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve contracts as listed by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Motion to approve grant applications/service contracts and accept funding if awarded;
and approval of contracts, positions, and other expenditures associated with the grants
as outlined in the proposed budget by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Corona
Sabeniano.

A. Pedestrian and Bicycle Safety Program Grant - Brent Malicote

B. 21st Century California School Leadership Academy - Dr. Nancy Herota

C. English Language Learner Healthcare Pathways Grant - Dr. Nancy Herota

10. New Business - Other

A. NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING and Adoption of Resolution No. 23-11
   Determination of Textbooks and/or Instructional Materials Sufficiency Pursuant to
   Education Code Section 60119 for SCOE's Community and Special Education
   Schools - Jacqueline White/Michael Kast

Public Hearing Opened at 7:05 p.m.



09.05.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            4
There were no public comments.

Public Hearing Closed at 7:05 p.m.

Motion to adopt Resolution No. 23-11 - Determination of Textbooks and/or Instructional
Materials Sufficiency Pursuant to Education Code Section 60119 for SCOE's
Community and Special Education Schools by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee
Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

B. New Business - Network Infrastructure Modernization Projects - Jerry Jones

Motion to authorize staff to conduct business as required to complete the network
infrastructure modernization projects, including obtaining all required federal, state, and
local approvals, hiring architects, and seeking public bids for the work by Trustee
Brown, second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

C. Board Report - CalSOAP - Brent Malicote

Assistant Superintendent Brent Malicote introduced Gaudalupe Delgado, Director of
CalSOAP who presented the CalSOAP Board Report.

D. Board Report - School of Education - Dr. Steven Winlock

Dr. Steven Winlock, Executive Director of SCOE School of Education, presented the
School of Education Board Report.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola stated that she attended the Teacher of the Year event with her husband
and enjoyed the evening very much.

Trustee Keefer - no report.

Vice President Brown reported that he attended a special event featuring Dr. Cornel
West at the Guild Theater last Friday. He stated that Dr. West is an old friend as well as
a 2024 presidential candidate.


09.05.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                                5
Trustee Davis - no report.

Trustee Fong - no report.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano commented that she enjoyed the Teacher of the Year event
on August 25 and that she is looking forward to the CCBE conference this weekend.
Trustee Corona Sabeniano also provided the meeting’s optimistic closure by reading a
poem from 916 Ink.

B. Board President

President Lefkovitz distributed the SCOE Committee assignments for 2023-2024. She
also encouraged others to attend the various literacy events taking place at the end of
September, including this year’s Sacramento Literacy Festival at the Oak Park Farmers’
Market on September 30. President Lefkovitz announced that the Board Student Liaison
will be present at the September 19 Board meeting, and she will attend her first meeting
in this role on October 3. She also stated that the first youth voice presentation will take
place at the September 19 Board meeting and that she and Dr. Brown will attend the
CCBE Conference this weekend.

C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution

A. September/October Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. September 19, 2023 and October 3, 2023

14. Adjournment

A. Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

The meeting adjourned at 8:13 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board


09.05.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            6
Date approved:




09.05.23 Board Meeting Minutes   7
