Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting
Tuesday, April 12, 2022 – 6:30 p.m.

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Meeting Logistics

A. Zoom Video and/or Teleconference Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

2. Call to Order, Roll Call, and Pledge of Allegiance

A. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Talamantes called the meeting to order at 6:33 p.m. One Board member
participated via teleconference: Harold Fong. Other Board members present in-person
were Paul Keefer, Bina Lefkovitz, Joanne Ahola, Heather Davis, Karina Talamantes,
and Alfred Brown. Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary
to the Board; Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; Nick Schweizer, Associate
Superintendent; Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; Shanine Coats, Director; Jerry
Jones, Executive Director of Technology; Fernando Soares; and Wende Watson,
Executive Assistant. Other SCOE staff attended via Zoom: Tim Herrera, Jacqueline
White, Brent Malicote, Channa Cook-Harvey, Darrien Johnson, Kristin Wright, Melissa
Neuburger, and Michael Kast.

B. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Ahola lead the pledge.

3. Approval of Minutes

Trustee Fong moved to approve the Minutes of Board/Superintendent Study Session of
March 1, 2022. Trustee Ahola seconded the motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

4. Adoption of Agenda

Trustee Keefer moved to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented. Trustee
Davis seconded the motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried




04.12.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                            1
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

5. Official Correspondence

There was no official correspondence.

6. Visitor Presentations

A. General Public

There were four public comments made by the following individuals: Rachel Kattan,
Debbie W., Gabrielle, Crystal Baham, and Blanca regarding SB 871 and SB 1479.
B. Employee Organizations


There were no presentations from employee organizations.

7. Superintendent’s Report

Superintendent Gordon provided the following report:

NATHANIEL S. COLLEY SCHOOL DEDICATION/RSVPs
As you know plans are underway for the dedication of the Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr.
school site on May 9, 2022. You should have all received your invitations in the mail.
Please remember to RSVP via the link indicated on the invitation. Please contact us if
you need assistance. We are looking forward to this historic and celebratory event.

COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
SCOE community schools are enjoying Spring Break this week. Students in our CARE
program at Wilson C Riles are looking forward to their 916 Ink book release and
distribution on March 30.

EL CENTRO
We are so thrilled to have the Sac Mandarins Drum Corps working with our youth every
Friday. 27 SOAR students will complete their third quarter of college course work with
Lake Tahoe Community College on March 23. In partnership with Northern California
Construction Training (NCCT), and as part of the Sacramento Regional Builders
Exchange (SRBX) design build, EL Centro students will participate in the regional
competition on the North Field of the Youth Detention facility between April 26 and April
29.

SPECIAL EDUCATION UPDATE
The Infant Development Program started providing services in family homes again on
April 4. Throughout our Mod/Severe and ED programs, we are seeing an increase in
students returning from Independent Study to in-person learning. Our Foundations



04.12.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                                 2
Academy will hold its Spring graduation ceremonies in-person, at the SCOE Conference
Center on May 11 and 12.

DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION UPDATE
The SCOE DEI team has been meeting with district equity leads over the past month to
deepen SCOE’s relationship and support for our districts' local DEI efforts. SCOE will be
holding the first Sacramento County-wide DEI Community of Practice on May 20 in-
person at SCOE. In our continued efforts to become a more diverse, equitable, and
inclusive organization, we are in the midst of our Spring staff learning series with the
National Equity Project (NEP). On March 31, SCOE/NEP hosted a training on
Navigating Complexity as Equity Leaders. Our next county-wide learning session on
Designing and Facilitating Meetings for Equity will be held on April 20 via zoom. This will
be followed by two more sessions on May 18 and June 1. In honor of April being Autism
Awareness month, SCOE is hosting a Learn at Lunch on April 20 with Chapman
University doctoral student Stephen Hinkle, who will be sharing about his life
experiences as a person with autism and his work toward creating a more equitable and
diverse world.

MOOT COURT
On April 4, we hosted the Sacramento County Moot Court finals. It was a great
recognition of some hard-working students. Congratulations to Bella Vista for taking first
place and to Mira Loma for finishing second. The final trial and awards ceremony were
held in the beautiful and historic Court of Appeal courtroom in downtown Sacramento. I
want to personally thank Third District Court of Appeal Presiding Justice Vance W.
Raye, and Justices Ronald B. Robie and Andrea L. Hoch, who presided over our final
round. Thanks also to Student Events Coordinator Craig Irish and his amazing team for
hosting this event.

SCOE TEACHER OF THE YEAR VIRTUAL RECEPTION
On March 24, we hosted a virtual reception for seven of our teachers who were
nominated for the 2023 SCOE Teacher of the Year. It is a great cross section of
teachers representing many of our programs. The interview process has been
completed and we will announce our 2023 Teacher of the Year very soon.

PREVENTION SUMMIT
On March 16, we hosted the Sacramento County Prevention Summit and welcomed
more than 200 participants from across Sacramento County and beyond. It was an
engaging day of learning and connecting about ways we can help our youth make good,
healthy decisions. We held workshops on vaping, social media, and fentanyl. We also
had a discussion on how in Sacramento County we are making schools centers of
wellness. Many thanks to Coordinator Joelle Orrock and our Prevention and Early
Intervention Team for hosting this very important summit.

8.A. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

Trustee Davis moved to adopt the Consent Agenda. Trustee Ahola seconded the
motion.



04.12.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                               3
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

By approval of the consent agenda the following consent agenda items were approved:

B. Accept Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students – Jacqueline
White/Michael Kast

Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendent, announced that 19 students will be
awarded a diploma: three candidates from Cordova Lane Senior Extension; two
candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School; six candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey
Senior Extension; and eight candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

9. New Business - Capital College & Career Academy Petition

A. Public Hearing and Consideration of Capital College & Career Academy Countywide
Charter Petition – Teresa Stinson

Public Hearing opened at 6:56 p.m.

Kevin Dobson presented the Capital College & Career Academy charter petition to the
Board.

Next, Dr. Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent, and Nick Schweizer, Associate
Superintendent of Business Services, presented SCOE's analysis of the CCCA petition
and SCOE’s Recommended Findings of Fact to the Board.

The following individuals provided public comments in support of the charter petition:

Brian Miller, Jacobe Caditz, Jessica Walden, Stephanie Hannah, Ben Fell, Marco
Lopez, Tim Murphy, John Belperio, James Moore, Michael Lynch, John Hershey, Lisa
Tramonte, Ricardo Soto, Andrea Cao, Onassis McFarlane, Neildon Charles, Ted Morrill,
Dan Branton, Matt Kelly, Sherry Balian, Anette Smith, Ryan Orn, Mark Freeman, Brian
Greenberg, Curt Ferreira, Jim Fritch, Seth Howard, Marie Trevino, Spencer Styles,
Amanda Goldman, Cameron Hart, Alexander Hampton, Jane Macaulay, Ting Sun, Scott
Powell, Doyle Smith, Adrian Simi, Daniel Savala, Chris Palomo, Noah Painter, David
Statham, Omar Hernandez, Akeem Bynum, Kyle Swarens, Anatoliy Gavrilyuk, Mitchell,
Addie Ellis, Antonio Acevedo, Kevin Ferreira, Deborah Wilder, Angel Garcia, Carlos
Valdez, Eric Premack, Dennis Nevils, John McCormack, and Amanda Reynaud.

The following individuals provided written public comments in support of the charter
petition:




04.12.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                              4
Barbara Stanton, Livia Castro, Doyle Radford, Falme Lampkins, Todd Schiavo, Jim
Baldridge, Cathy Rodriguez, Duane Hartman, Jr., Karl Pineo, Patrick Walsh, William
Gonzalez, Devin Evers, Anette Smith, and Raymond Davis.

The following individuals provided public comments in opposition of the charter petition:

Mo Kashmiri, Anna Aguilar, Lori Grace, Rachel Warino, and Brett Taylor.

The following individuals provided written public comments in opposition of the charter
petition:

Lori Grace, Joseph Pickar, Mary McNulty, Mara Harvey, Nikki Milesvsky, John
Liddicoat, Rebecca, LeDoux, Sarah Cavalari, Tracey Surette, Clare Crawford, and Brett
Taylor.

Public Hearing closed at 9:09 p.m.

The meeting was opened for Board comments, questions, and deliberation.

Pursuant to Board Bylaw 9323, Trustee Fong moved to extend the meeting to 11:30
p.m. Trustee Ahola seconded the motion

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

President Talamantes asked if there was a motion to approve or deny the CCCA
countywide charter school petition.

Trustee Keefer moved, and Trustee Brown seconded the motion to adopt Resolution
No. 22-07 conditionally approving the Capital College & Career Academy countywide
charter petition, subject to the conditions outlined in the Resolution.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee
Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
No: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Harold Fong,

After approval of the motion to adopt Resolution No. 22-07, President Talamantes
stated that our SCOE staff will prepare and negotiate an MOU with CCCA, which will be
brought back for the Board’s consideration and approval. If Board members have
preferences for big picture items (beyond those outlined in the Resolution) that they
would like our staff to consider including in the MOU, you may share those preferences
now. SCOE staff will consider these preferences and will discuss and negotiate them
with CCCA, then SCOE staff will bring the MOU before the Board for consideration and
approval.



04.12.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                                 5
President Talamantes, Trustee Lefkovitz, and Trustee Fong voiced additional
recommendations to be included in the MOU with CCCA.

10. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

Trustee Keefer moved to approve the contracts. Trustee Ahola seconded the motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

11. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget -
David W. Gordon

Trustee Brown moved to approve. Trustee Davis seconded the motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee
Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown
Abstain: Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Joanne Ahola

By approval of Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts and Accept
Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other Expenditures
Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget the following items were
approved:

A. K12 Strong Workforce Program - Sacramento County Work-based Learning Initiative
- Jacqueline White

B. Teacher Residency Capacity Grant - Dr. Nancy Herota

C. Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) Comprehensive Support and Improvement Plan
Development - Brent Malicote

D. Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) Comprehensive Support and Improvement Plan
Approval - Brent Malicote

E. American Rescue Plan-Homeless Children and Youth II - Brent Malicote

12. New Business - Other

A. Consideration and Adoption of Resolution No. 22-06 - Authorizing Continuance of
Teleconferenced Board Meetings - Teresa Stinson




04.12.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                            6
Trustee Fong moved to approve Resolution No. 22-06 - Authorizing Continuance of
Teleconferenced Board Meetings through April 22, 2022. Trustee Davis seconded the
motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

13. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola thanked the staff for the time and resources that were put into the charter
petition. She also requested that meetings in which charter petitions are considered
start at an earlier time going forward.

Trustee Brown commented that he is looking forward to the Nathaniel Colley event on
May 9.

Trustee Lefkovitz thanked the team for their efforts on the charter petition. She recently
spoke with CTA, and they asked her why SCOE does not consider the fiscal impact of
charters on the districts and competition. She asked if the Board would like to have a
discussion around this. She had another request for a presentation from the county
superintendent on Sacramento City Unified School District’s fiscal issues. She is getting
a lot of questions about it. Also, would like an update on how the other school districts
are doing. With all the shootings happening, she would like to know how SCOE deals
with this.

Trustee Fong also commented on the violence happening in our city. He asked a
number of years ago about this and stopped asking about it. It’s important for our Board
to pass resolutions about gun violence and our youth. Something appropriate, if not just
symbolically put it on record that we have concerns about this or maybe more actively
saying we support certain kinds of firearm control. This is way over the top with what is
happening to our young people in this country. At the very least, have people come and
talk about gun violence, education, and our youth, and how it’s all connected. When he
asked before, he was told that gun violence is not a topic for us. Our youth is out there
being killed. We, at the county office, serve the most at risk kids that are in Juvenile Hall
and community schools. We had some of our community school kids pass because of
gun violence. We had quite famous kids that have passed because of that. He would
like our Board to consider making a public statement in a form of a resolution around
this.

Trustee Davis commented that she will be going to Sly Park on April 15 for a site visit.

Trustee Keefer commented that he is looking forward to the various May events,




04.12.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                                 7
graduations, and the Nathaniel Colley event. He also stated that Fentanyl is killing our
children and that this is what we should be focusing on right now.

B. Board President

President Talamantes agreed with Trustee Keefer that we should do more work on drug
prevention and rehabilitation. She will have an opportunity to announce the North
Natomas Community Center & Aquatics Complex grand opening tomorrow morning.

C. Committees

No Committee reports.

14. Items for Distribution

No Items for distribution.

15. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. April 19, 2022
B. May 3, 2022

16. Adjournment

Trustee Davis moved to adjourn the meeting. Trustee Ahola seconded the motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Meeting adjourned at 10:56 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




04.12.22 Board Meeting Minutes - UNAPPROVED                                                8
