Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.

Tuesday, August 9, 2022

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Other Board members
present: Bina Lefkovitz, Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Harold Fong, Joanne Ahola
(arrived at 6:40 p.m.), and Alfred Brown.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendent Nick Schweizer; Assistant Superintendents Jacqueline White and Brent
Malicote; Executive Directors Michael Kast and Jerry Jones; Director Shanine Coats;
and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Brown lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Approval of Minutes

A. Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of May 17, 2022 by
Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Alfred
Brown
Abstain: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano

3. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to approve the adoption of the agenda as presented by Trustee Brown,
second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Alfred Brown

4. Official Correspondence
A. There was no official correspondence.

5. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

There were no public comments.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no requests from employee organizations.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

ADMINISTRATION
The Sacramento County School Boards Association Dinner Meeting is scheduled for
October 12 in the Mather Room. The guest speaker will be (Retired) Sacramento Police
Chief Daniel Hahn. As background to our community of practice with our districts on
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, Chief Hahn will speak on the history of Sacramento and
the surrounding areas and discuss race-based policies that have impacted our
communities over the years. Please mark your calendars for October 12 at 5:30 p.m.

COMMUNICATIONS
Xanthi Soriano has been appointed as SCOE’s Executive Director of Communications.
She replaces Tim Herrera, our previous Communications Director, who retired in July.
With Xanthi’s experience in education and the business world, her commitment to
learning, and deep knowledge of our region, she is an ideal person to lead
communications for SCOE. Xanthi will start the new position on September 26.

SPECIAL EDUCATION
Staff from Foundations Academy and Leo A Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School have
professional development days and classroom prep days on their calendar to ensure
everyone is adequately prepared to start the school year.

Our programs in Center Joint Unified School District began on July 3. We have one
program at Wilson C. Riles Middle school and two programs at Cyril Spinelli Elementary
School. Galt High School and our preschool programs started on July 8.

Staffing in special education is extremely challenging to fill. We are currently short two
special education teachers and over 15 paraprofessionals. We are aggressively working
with staffing agencies to contract for paraprofessionals, but even the agencies are
struggling to find people.

PROFESSIONAL LEARNING
Professional Learning was presented for over 100 staff including Special Education,
Court and Community, and Adult Re-Entry. The week kicked off with a barbecue lunch
and had a “What is your Super Power?” theme to encourage staff to tap into all of the
strengths they bring to our community. The first full day of learning was presented by
our very own leaders: Veronica Ruiz, our Coordinator of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion;
Daniel Cisneros, one of our Mental Health and Wellness Coordinators; and Mary Reed,
our Coordinator of Social Emotional Learning. The second day was a “choose your own
adventure” with sessions from guest presenters, as well as internal presenters.

Superintendent Gordon greeted staff on the first day of Professional Learning and
thanked them for all of their hard work. He visited both days and reported that the
sessions were fabulous. It was wonderful to see the staff in-person, learning, having
fun, and building community and connections.

SCHOOL-BASED MENTAL HEALTH AND WELLNESS AND SCOE CAREER
PIPELINE
Last week SCOE held a 5-day orientation for returning and new team members
(clinicians, graduate clinical interns, and peer specialist/interns). The orientation
covered conceptual elements and provided a program overview, as well as tools and
best practices for integrating into schools as centers of wellness. The start of this school
year marks our expansion from 20 to 40 schools with clinicians, and Cohort 1 of the
SBMHW Path of the SCOE Career Pipeline, which includes family navigators, peer
specialists, and graduate clinical interns.

COURT AND COMMUNITY
Our first CARE program began August 3 in Center Joint Unified School District. CARE
programs will continue starting throughout the county during the month of August.
SCOE’s Senior Extension and Community School programs begin August 15th with
teachers returning to the sites August 11th.

TEACHER OF THE YEAR AWARDS BANQUET
The Sacramento County 2023 Teachers of the Year will be recognized at a banquet on
Friday, August 26. Following dinner there will be an awards ceremony to recognize all
(12) teachers and announce two winners that will serve as Sacramento County 2023
Teachers of the Year and represent our county at the state-level competition. The event
will be held at the Hilton Sacramento Arden West on Harvard Street. Dinner will be
served at 6:30 p.m. and the program begins at 7 p.m. Superintendent Gordon
encouraged Board members to attend as this is very meaningful to our Sacramento
schools. On the same note, the Sac Republic honored educators at last Saturday's
game. Trustees Corona Sabeniano and Brown attended this fun event.

B. Recognition of the September Employee of the Month

Sharon Saldana, Office Assistant, Administration Department, was selected as the
Classified Employee of the Month for September 2022.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda
A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

By approval of the consent agenda, the following items were approved:

B. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students – Jacqueline
White/Michael Kast

Michael Kast, Executive Director, announced that the following students will be awarded
a diploma: 2 candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School; 11 candidates from Leo A.
Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School; and 2 candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

C. Accept Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Motion to approve by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Alfred Brown
Abstain: Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Joanne Ahola

A. SEEDS of Partnership Grant - Michael Kast

B. Classified Employee Credential Grant - Dr. Nancy Herota

C. Dyslexia Grant for Teacher Preparation - Dr. Nancy Herota

10. New Business - Other

A. American River Collegiate Academy Charter School Annual Report - Teresa Stinson
General Counsel Ms. Stinson, introduced Consultant Nancy Brownell to present the
ARCA Charter School Annual Report.

Robin Stout, Executive Director/Superintendent from ARCA presented their report.

B. Notice of Public Hearing and Action on Resolution No. 22-14 to Approve Proposed
Material Revision to American River Collegiate Academy (ARCA) Charter School
Petition - Teresa Stinson

General Counsel Ms. Stinson presented this item.

Public Hearing opened at 8:06 p.m.

No public comments.

Public Hearing closed at 8:07 p.m.

Motion to adopt Resolution No. 22-14 to approve proposed material revision to
American River Collegiate Academy Charter Petition by Trustee Brown, second by
Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
No: Trustee Harold Fong

C. Approval of Memorandum of Understanding for the Capital College & Career
Academy Countywide Charter - Teresa Stinson

Motion to approve the proposed MOU between CCCA, the Board, and SCOE with
technical edits by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

D. Adoption of the 6th-12th Grade Science Instructional Materials for Sacramento
County Office of Education Programs - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White presented this item.

The Board’s Curriculum Committee has recommended the adoption of the science
materials and textbooks in SCOE operated instructional programs. Therefore, a motion
is not needed.

Final Resolution: Adoption Approved
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

E. Notice of Public Hearing and Adoption of Resolution No. 22-15 - Determination of
Textbooks and/or Instructional Materials Sufficiency Pursuant to Education Code
Section 60119 for Juvenile Court Schools - Jacqueline White

Public Hearing opened at 8:49 p.m.

No public comments.

Public Hearing closed at 8:51 p.m.

Motion to adopt Resolution No. 22-15 - Determination of Textbooks and/or Instructional
Materials Sufficiency Pursuant to Education Code Section 60119 for Juvenile Court
Schools by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Ahola

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Keefer announced Committee Appointments and Liaisons.

Trustee Ahola attended an event at the Museum of Tolerance in Los Angeles. It is a
free 2-day experience available to educators. There are also opportunities for middle
schoolers. Ms. Ahola announced that she was accepted into a one-year fellowship with
Cambiar Catalyst designed for education leaders. Ms. Ahola wished everyone a
successful and happy back to school experience and hopes that we are moving past the
post-pandemic place and really focused on learning, the students, and the humans that
are teaching the students.

Trustee Brown commented that he is becoming a “green thumb” and has started
planting many things in his backyard. This is going to be his new hobby along with golf.
Dr. Brown mentioned that the mother of the new Supreme Court Justice, Ketanji Brown
Jackson, was in his undergrad class.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano thanked Superintendent Gordon and his staff for taking time
to meet with her. She commented that she enjoyed learning more about SCOE. Ms.
Corona Sabeniano recently attended National Night Out in North Natomas. It is a great
event to spread the word about what SCOE is doing. Some communities have pushed
their events out to October, which may give some of us a chance to learn more about
what is going on in our districts and share about the Scholarship program. She looks
forward to serving on the Budget and Policy committees.
Trustee Fong requested that SCOE look at subsidies for solar panels to learn if it is
feasible for SCOE to put solar panels on our buildings or in our parking lots. In terms of
the vacancy on the Personnel Commission, he expressed that he hopes that the person
who fills this position will support SCOE DEI efforts.

Trustee Lefkovitz is excited to teach a freshman seminar at Sac State in-person starting
at the end of August. She commented that she appreciates what teachers go through as
they return to school and is sending them good thoughts. On August 17, Parents of
LGBTQ LBGTQ (PFLAG) is having its 40th year dinner celebration. She invited anyone
who would like to join her. She commented that she hopes to have a Board Retreat
sometime in the near future.

B. Board President

President Keefer thanked everyone for a great night and making sure our guests were
well prepared and making the night go so smoothly.

C. Committees

There were no Committee reports.

12. Items for Distribution

A. August/September Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. September 6, 2022 and September 20, 2022

14. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to adjourn meeting by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Meeting adjourned at 9:00 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,


Date approved:
