         '       '                      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      ...        ., a
             '/fJ,                 I

                                         10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702
             ••       ..   • ::I

             ADAM A. HOUSE
                     Fire Chief                         ADOPTED
··1    -,.
                                        ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                                                       BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                                             SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                                      Thursday, October 12, 2023
                                                    Held at the following locations:
                                                10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                                           Mather, California
                                                                    &
                                                          Remotely Via Zoom

                     CALL TO ORDER
                     The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm by President Clark. Board members present:
                     Clark; Costa , Jones, Rice, Saylors, Sheetz, Webber and Wood. Board members absent:
                     Goold. Staff present: Deputy Chief Mitchell and Board Clerk Rittburg.

                     PUBLIC COMMENTS

                     Public comments were received.

                     CONSENT ITEMS

                     Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by
                     members present to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

                     1.        Action Summary Minutes
                               Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
                               Board Meeting of September 14, 2023.
                               Action : Approved the Action Summary Minutes
                     2:        Adopt Resolution - Bid Award - Station Access Control (Phase 3)
                               Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution approving the Request for Exception
                               to Formal Solicitation Process and award a contract to Access Systems, Inc.
                               Ac:tion: Adopted Resolution 2023~063 approving the Request for Exception to
                               Formal Solicitation Process and award a contract to Access Systems, Inc.

                     3.        Adopt Resolution - Contract for Emergency Medical Services (EMS)
                               Cost Recovery Services
                               Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution authorizing the Fire Chief or his
                               designee to execute a professional services agreement with Wittman
                               Enterprises, LLC for the provision of EMS cost recovery, effective January 1,
                               2024.
                                                                 .. _:. ; .•. i   I   :   ' "'' >




                                                        - .-:-:Jn:!::,                ':i \ .-.;:   .    --             ,., .:
                                                                                                                          .   ...
          Action: ' Adopted Resolution 2023-064 auth¢t~zing~~,,t~e·"'Fire ':,C~ief or his
       •. designe$ to execute a professional services' I :agreefu~nf·'•wjth Wittman
          Enterprises, LLC ·for the provision of EMS cost 'reco\f.er.y,~effeotive January 1,
          2024. ·                                                 ,.

 PRESENTATION ITEMS

 1.     EMS Award of Excellence Plaque in Wildland Fire EMS/Rescue Awarded
        To Metro Fire's Air Operations Division                                                                        . ;:      :

        (BC Grant Russell)
        Recommendation: Receive presentation.
        Action: Presentation received.

 2.      Advocacy Action Plan Presentation
         (Director of Government Affairs Kyle Macdonald)
         Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.
         Action: Presentation received .

 ACTION ITEMS                                                       " I'              •



' 1.     Adopt Resolution - Project Deliv~ry Method -: Zinfanqel Phase 3 Buildout
         (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
         Recommendation:        Adopt the Resolution approving the use of the design-build
         construction delivery method and authorize related acts for the design and construction of
         the Zinfandel Phase 3 Buildout project.
         Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by
         members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-065 approving the use of the design-build
         construction delivery method and authorize related acts for the design and construction of
         the Zinfandel Phase 3 Buildout project.

 2.      Adopt Resolutions - FY 2023/24 Capital Improvement Plan Amendment
         (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
         Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution amending the FY 2023/24 Capital
         Improvement Plan and the Budget Amendment Resolutions.
         Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by roll
         call vote of members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-066, amending the FY 2023/24
         Capital Improvement Plan.
         Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by roll
         call vote of members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-067, adopting a budget
         amendment to the final budget for the general fund 212A for the fiscal year 2023/24. •
         Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by roll
         call vote of members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-068, adopting a budget
         amendment to the final budget for the capital facilities fund 212d for the fiscal , year
         2023/24.

  10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                       Page 2 of 10
3.    Industrial Disability Retirement- Engineer Steven Caldwell
      Recommendation:           After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a
      Resolution finding Engineer Steven Caldwell has suffered job related injuries and is
      eligible for an Industrial Disability Retirement.
      Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by
      roll call vote of members present to adopt Resolution 2023-069 pursuant To
      Government Code Section 21156 - finding Engineer Steven Caldwell has suffered job
      related injuries and is eligible for an Industrial Disability Retirement.

4.    Industrial Disability Retirement - Captain Colin Swarthout
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session , consider adopting a Resolution
      finding Captain Colin Swarthout has suffered job related injuries and is eligible for an
      Industrial Disability Retirement.
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2023-070 pursuant To Government Code
      Section 21156 - finding Captain Colin Swarthout has suffered job related injuries and is •
      eligible for an Industrial Disability Retirement.                                     •

REPORTS

1.    PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Clark)

      No Report

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

     I am filling in for Chief House this evening as he is attending a Public Safety
     Cloud Workshop today at Microsoft's office in Mountain View, along with Chief
     Wagaman and other Ca Metro Fire Chiefs Association and Western Fire Chiefs
     Association members.

     1. Members
         a. It is with profound sadness that I inform you of the peaceful passing of:
                 • Captain Robert "Bob" Bruce (Ret.) on Saturday morning, October
                    7, at his residence in Galt. Captain Bruce dedicated 24 years of
                    faithful service to our community and retired from Metro Fire on
                    December 30, 2017. He leaves behind his beloved wife, Denise,
                    and their son, Hunter.

                    Captain Bruce had a positive impact on everyone he came into
                    contact with, both within Metro Fire and the broader ,community. He
                    was a truly exceptional individual, known for his kindness and
                    unwavering commitment to helping others.



10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 3 of 10
                   During this difficult time, the Bruce family kindly requests privacy.
                   Captain Parker Wilbourn has been assigned as Metro Fire's Liaison
                   for the family. Further information will be shared as it becomes
                   available.

                    Please keep the Bruce family in your thoughts.

         b. Promotion Ceremony
            On October 3, the District held a Promotion Ceremony for 21 members (3
            professional staff, 2 battalion chiefs, 12 captains, and 4 engineers) who
            were promoted from March through October. The ceremony went very
            well, and it was a great opportunity to celebrate, along with friends and
            families, the milestone for each member honored that evening.

             Thank you to all the members who had a hand in putting together this
             important event, especially the Community Relations Division, for the big
             lift in coordinating the entire event and the family, friends, and current and
             retired members who attended.

             I am excited to announce that the District has re-engaged communication
             with our community through a quarterly e-newsletter, Metro Fire Scene.
             The first newsletter was distributed on October 9.

             The Metro Fire Scene Newsletter aims to create meaningful and long-
             lasting relationships with residents, local businesses, and community-
             based organizations through consistent communication and relevant
             safety information, upcoming events , Metro Fire highlights, and much
             more! If you haven't already, check it out.

    2. New Hire(s)
       Please join me in welcoming:
        a. Sayed Sadat, hired for the position of Administrative Specialist in the
           Support Services Branch , effective September 18. Sayed came to the
           podium to say hello and provided a brief personal history to the board.

          b. Tania Zamora, reinstated for the position of Paramedic in the Metro
             Medic Program (MMP), effective October 4, 2023.

     3. Promotion(s)
        Congratulations to Kendra Clark, who was promoted to Administrative
        Specialist in CRRD, effective September 19. Kendra came to the podium to
        say hello and provided a brief personal history to the board. Kendra
        introduced her dog Peppermint that she trains for Canine Companions.
10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                 Page 4 of 10
    4. Retirement(s)
       The District would like to congratulate Engineer Christopher Nelson on his
       retirement on October 10, 2023, after 29 years of service.

    5. Reassignment(s)
        a. The following members were selected to join Drill Master Dillon Fader for
           the 23-2 MMP Academy as Drill Instructors. The Academy started on
           October 9:
               i. FF Kyle DiBiase
              ii. Paramedic Diana Borshch

         b. Congratulations to Captain Jeremy Crawford for being selected to fill the
            Training Day Captain assignment, effective October 9, 2023.

             Captain Jason Cahill was reassigned from the Training Day Captain
             position to Suppression, effective September 4, 2023. The District would
             like to thank Captain Cahill for his dedication and commitment while
             working in Training.

    6. Recruitment(s)
      The District is accepting:
        a. Letters of interest from the rank of Captain/Paramedic for the position of
           EMS Day Captain with a final filing date of October 11 by 4 PM.

          b. Letters of interest from non-probationary Firefighters, Engineers, and
             Captain for the position of Drill Instructor for the 23-1 Fire Academy,
             which is scheduled to run from January 16 through May 17, 2024. Letters
             of interest are due by 4 PM on October 23.

          c. Applications (internal/external) for the position of Fire Mechanic with a
             final filing date of October 31 by 4 PM.

    7. Lift Assist Fee Follow Up
        a. On June 8, 2023, Interim FC Haverty brought an item to the Board about
            exploring a lift assist fee when we respond to for-profit care facilities for
            patient assistance requests
        b. The July 27 th adopted fee schedule Ordinance 2023-02 included this fee
            structure (recovery of actual costs) and allows us to continue to explore
            implementation.
        c. There are a number of items to consider when we look at this fee, many
            of which the Board discussed back in June (ensuring its use was limited
            to for-profit healthcare facilities, what is the legal definition and required
            training level of a healthcare facility that calls, etc.).
10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                Page 5 of 10
          d. Notably, the data from 2022 initially indicates that 95 calls out of 3298
             (2.8%) occurred in a healthcare facility. Also notable, a vast majority
             ( 1262, or 38%) of the calls occurred in one- and two-family residences.
          e. Staff will continue to look into it further and come back with a
             recommendation in the future.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (AC Greene)

Air Operations Update:

This evening I will walk you through the events that have occurred over the past 10 days in
Air Operations. Our goal remains 100% transparency with the event and process to bring Air
Operations back into service. This report will focus on a high-level overview, as a Green
Sheet is pending distribution which will highlight the details of the situation.

On Tuesday October 3, 2023, Copter 1 had completed training operations over Folsom Lake
and was returning to Station 115 when its crew door departed the helicopter in flight over
Granite Bay. The door struck the roof of a house, causing minimal damage. The door was
located and positive contact made with the homeowner. There we no injuries to our flight
crew or the public. Air Operations immediately moved into a Safety Stand-Down and remains
in·this mode until further notice. Over the past week the Support Services Branch has worked
diligently with the homeowner to repair the roof.

The Operations Branch solicited assistance from the CalFire Aviation Management Unit to
collect the facts of the event and provide recommendations to move forward with the process.
This took several days for them to complete, and their partnership in firefighting aviation is to
be commended.

The Executive Team and all Assistant Chief's met with the Air Operations Division on
Wednesday October 11 to review the event and facts that have been determined at this time.
The specific details as to the event and contributing factors will be released in Green Sheet
format by the end of this week to ensure our transparency. We are currently putting a plan
together to address the repairs of Copter 1 and any modifications that may be necessary for
Copter 2. We look forward to communicating this plan once complete.

Civil Unrest Potential Relating to Current Events in Israel

On 11 October 2023, a video circulating on multiple social media platforms shows former
Hamas leader calling for action. It is reported to call for Muslims to engage in violent action,
specifically for Muslims in the nations surrounding Israel to enter the war on Hamas' behalf
on Friday, 13 October 2023.

The District receives communications directly from the Central California Intelligence Center,
who is not aware of any specific or credible threat to the Eastern District of California at this
time. Our priority remains to ensure the safety of our members and uninterrupted service
delivery. We work closely with local law enforcement and follow our civil unrest operational
plans on a case-by-case basis.

10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 6 of 10
    ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Bailey)

     COMMUNITY RELATIONS DIVISION
•     Station 42 was dedicated on 9/29/23 to Captain Mike Guzman and Engineer Kyle Rutherford.
•    Transfer of Command Ceremony will be held on 10/24/23 at Cordova High School.
•     Fire prevention week October 8-14. The theme is "Cooking Safety Starts with YOU!" This is a
      reminder to our community that cooking fires are the number one cause of home fires and home
      fire-related injuries.
                  o Flat Flare is our social media campaign this year.
•     Cancer awareness and early detection are so important to Metro Fire that we wrap a fire engine
      every year, one side is pink for breast cancer awareness and the other is blue for Movember the
      month designated as for awareness of men's cancer such as prostate cancer. Thank you to Pr9
      Style Wraps, the Sacramento Kings, the City of Rancho Cordova, and several other organizations
      for sponsoring the wrap this year. On 10/2/23 we kicked off the campaign with a media day
      where we saw all the local media outlets. Tonight, you saw the engine parked outside as you
    · arrived for this board meeting. You may have noticed we added a banner in honor of Captain
      Bob Bruce. While working here, Captain Bob Bruce introduced the idea of the cancer engine in
      part due to his fight with cancer while working here. Unfortunately, Captain Bruce passed away
      on October 7, 2023. The cancer engine will be making appea~a.nce~ aU around the district over
      the next two months. Here are some upcoming events:              ..
                  o Thursday, October 19 - Kings Game - Cancer Awareness game
                  o Saturday, October 21 - Sac State football game '
                  o Wednesday, November 1 - State of the City of Rancho Cordova
                  o Various other photo shoots with various agencies including Rancho Cordova PD
                       and Fire Dispatch
    FINANCE
•   The Finance Division has quickly pivoted from budgets to audits and is working closely with our
    new third-party auditor, Badawi and Associates, to complete the fiscal year 2022/23 audit by
    December 31, 2023. Board members should have received fraud risk surveys and are asked to
    submit responses by the end of October.
•   Accounting Technician Renee Falls was recognized with a 10-year service pin this week.

     HUMAN RESOURCES
•    Office Technician closes 10/13/23
               o Testing is the week of 10/30/23
•    Operation Data Analyst closes 10/13/23
•    Fire Meehan ic closes 10/31 /23
•    Paramedic interviews scheduled for 10/5, 10/12 and 10/19                                           I   •   '


•    EMT interviews scheduled for October 17-19 (87 candidates scheduled)

     BACKGROUNDS
       • 1 MIH provider
       • 2 MMP 24-1 Paramedics (Deferred from 23-2)
       • 24-1 Firefighter/Paramedic
            o 12 external
            o 8 internal

     10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 7 of 10
SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT (Deputy Chief Tyler Wagaman)
No Report

3. SMFD- FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Vice President Matt Cole)

Matt Cole reported that at the general membership meeting today Captain Sean Scollard was
voted in as Vice President, his term will start in January 2024. Trevor Jamison will continue to
serve as President, Dustin Rodrigues as Secretary/Treasurer and Jeremy Crawford as
Member Services. On Saturday, October 14, 2023, the California Firefighters Memorial will
be taking place in Sacramento. Engineer Kyle Rutherford and Retired Captain Jeffrey Vitti's
names will be added to the wall this year. It's National Fire Prevention Week which is
observed from October 8 - October 14th -

4.     COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
      10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.·

       A.       Executive Committee - (President Clark)
                Next Meeting: TBD
                No Report.

       B.       Communications Center JPA - (AC Greene)

                The Communications Center JPA Board met on October 10 for its Regular
                Board meeting and took the following actions:

            •   Approval of the Board-Up RFP (revision)
            •   Approval of the Resolution to Fix Healthcare Contributions

                The Communications Center JPA Board will meet next on October 24,
                2023 for its regularly scheduled meeting at SMFD's Boardroom.

       C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
                Next Meeting: October 26, 2023 at 5:00 PM
                No Report.

       D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
                Next Meeting: November 9, 2023
                Met tonight with one presentation item, the Meal and Refreshment Policy, and
                referred it to the full Board for approval at a future meeting.

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Saylors congratulated the air crews for the rescue in Placer County. Director Saylors
thanked Engine 65 for bringing the Cancer Engine to Headquarters tonight.

10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                      Page 8 of 10
Director Jones congratulations to us for the cohesive plan that Kyle Macdonald presented
tonight.

President Clark said he hopes and prays for our crews that they are safe. He thanked Kevin
Coleman at Station 58 for the tour of the Dozer program.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to Closed Session at 7:35 p.m. on the following matter:

1.    PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION § 54956.9 (A) -
      TWO (2) MATTERS OF WORKERS COMPENSATION COMPROMISE AND
      RELEASE:

      1. Joseph Reyes and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      Claim # SMDP - 549570 - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority -
      Tyler Sonksen of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

      2. Troy Thompson and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      Claim # SMDP - 549585 - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority -
      Tyler Sonksen of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

2.    PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION § 54956.9 (A) -
      TWO (2) MATTERS OF INDUSTRIAL DISABILITY RETIREMENT:

      1. Steven Caldwell and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      Claim# SMDQ - 550207; 40210385C46-0001; 4A22010AYUK - 0001 -
      Industrial Disability Retirement - Ty Bailey - Deputy Chief

      2. Colin Swarthout and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      Claim# 4A2204F22DB-0001 - Industrial Disability Retirement-
      Ty Bailey - Deputy Chief

3.     Pursuant to California Government Code 54957(a)
       Consultation with General Counsel and Cyber Security Manager

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

The board reconvened to open session at 8:28 p.m. and General Counsel Lavra reported the
Board met in Closed Session on several item: Item #1 Joseph Reyes Workers Compensation
Compromise and Release, the Board took no action; Item #2 Troy Thompson Workers
Compensation Compromise and Release and the Board unanimously voted to provide
authority to its third-party administrator to settle the Workers Compensation claim. General
Counsel Lavra also reported the Board met in Closed Session for two (2) Matters of Industrial
Disability Retirement and no action was taken, both items will be considered in open session.
Lastly, the Board met in Closed Session with the Cyber Security Manager on cyber security
issues and no action was taken.
10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 9 of 10
To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:
https://metrofire.ca.gov/2023-10-12-board-meeting
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:32 p.m.



D'Elman Clark, President                          Ted Wood, Secretary




10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                           Page 10 of
10
