                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                           Thursday, January 23, 2025, – 6:00 PM
Ted Wood                                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                   10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4
                                                Board Room – Second Floor
John Costa                                            Mather, California
Board Vice President
Division 9
                                                              &
                                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                   Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                     Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                    Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member            https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFlLQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Division 1

Grant Goold
Board Member           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D’Elman Clark
Board Member
                       Application, please click on the link above.
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member           reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member           accommodations:
Division 8
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                 THURSDAY, JANUARY 23, 2025


 CALL TO ORDER

 ROLL CALL

 PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro14live.saccounty.gov. Today’s meeting replays at 1:00 p.m. on Monday,
January 27, 2025 and again at 6:00 p.m. on Wednesday, January 29, 2025, on Metro
Cable Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand
at youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers’ comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                    Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                              6
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of January 9, 2025.

2.     2025 Annual Investment Policy for Pooled Funds                                                                      12
       Recommendation: Receive and ratify the 2025 Annual Investment Policy for
       Sacramento County Pooled Investment Fund.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                              THURSDAY, JANUARY 23, 2025


3.   Adopt Resolution – Surplus Vehicle Designation                                                                     28
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution designating the vehicles listed as surplus.

4.   Purchase Approval – Four (4) BME Type III Engines                                                                  32
     Recommendation: Approve the purchase of four (4) BME Type III Engines from
     Golden State Fire Apparatus, Inc. utilizing HGACBuy contract number FS12-23.

5.   Adopt Resolution – Designation of Authorized Agents for Disaster           142
     Assistance Funding
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution designating Authorized Agents for seeking
     and or managing disaster assistance funding.

6.   Nomination of Captain Steve Mayer for Honorary Metro Fire Member                                                   150
     Recommendation: Approve the nomination of Captain Mayer.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:
1.   FY 2023/24 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR), Accompanying 154
     Audit Reports, and GFOA Certificate of Achievement
     **   Separate Attachment
     (CFO Dave O’ Toole, and Ahmed Badawi, CPA)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation and accept the reports.

2.   FY 2023/24 Community Annual Report (CAR) and FY 2022/23 GFOA Popular 191
     Annual Financial Reporting Award
     (CFO Dave O’ Toole)
     Recommendation: Accept the Community Annual Report.

ACTION ITEMS:

1.   Adopt Resolution – California Senate Bill 1205 Mandatory Inspections &               210
     Compliance Reporting
     (Deputy Fire Marshal Amy Nygren)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation and adopt the Resolution acknowledging
     receipt of the annual report regarding the inspection of public and private schools and
     certain residential occupancies for the calendar year 2024.

2.   Formation of an Ad Hoc Committee to consider the qualifications and selection **
     criteria for members of the Measure O Citizens' Oversight Committee.
     (President Wood)
     Recommendation: Appoint three Board Members to an Ad Hoc Committee to
     consider the qualification and selection criteria for members of the Measure O
     Citizens' Oversight Committee and report back recommendations to the Board at the
     April 10, 2025 Board meeting.
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, JANUARY 23, 2025


REPORTS:

1.    PRESIDENT’S REPORT — (President Wood)

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT — (Chief House)

             OPERATIONS REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
             ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT – (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Johnson) – No
             Report
             SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT – (Deputy Chief Bailey)

3.    SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – Captain Sean Scollard, Local
      522 Vice President)

4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
      Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

      A.    Executive Committee – (President Wood)
            Next Meeting: TBD

      B.    Communications Center JPA – (Deputy Chief Bailey)
            Next Meeting: February 11, 2025 at 9:00 AM

      C.    Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Jones)
            Next Meeting: February 27, 2025 at 5:30 PM

      D.     Policy Committee – (Director Costa)
             Next Meeting: February 13, 2025 at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter:

1.    Public Employee Performance Evaluation: Fire Chief
      Pursuant to Government Code Sections 54957(b)(1) and 54954.5(e)

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                      THURSDAY, JANUARY 23, 2025


NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

    •   Regular Board Meeting – February 13, 2025 at 6:00 PM

Posted on January 16, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.


_____________________________________
Marni Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
*    Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility to this meeting.
