Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District
Presentation to the Board of Directors



January 23, 2025
2024 Audit of
Sacramento Metro Fire
District
Agenda
     Our Firm and the Engagement Team
         Deliverables and Scope of the Audit
          Audit Methodology
          Areas of Primary Audit Risk
          Auditor’s Report
         Required Communications
     New Accounting Standards
                                               3
Our Firm and the
Engagement Team
Our Firm – By the Numbers

     25    Years of Experience

          65    Government Audit Clients

           21   Special District Clients

          30    Employees

     0     Lawsuits, Legal or Disciplinary Actions
                                                     5
Engagement Team

                            Engagement Partner   Quality Control Reviewer
                            Ahmed Badawi, CPA       Mitesh Desai, CPA




        IT Specialist         Audit Manager
   Omar Rahman, CPA, CISA    Saleh Yassin, CPA




           Audit Staff          Audit Staff             Audit Staff




                                                                            6
Deliverables and
Scope of the Audit
Deliverables and Scope of the Audit
         Report on the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report
         (ACFR)

            Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
            and on Compliance


             Single Audit Report


            Agreed-Upon Procedures on Appropriation Limit
            Schedule (GANN)


         Communications With Those Charged With Governance
                                                                  8
Audit Methodology
  Audit Methodology




      Planning                 Interim                     Year-End                     Reporting




Gather information and   Review Systems, Processes   Test and Validate Significant   Prepare Necessary
Finalize Timing.         and Assess Risk.            Account Balances.               Reports.




                                                                                                         10
Areas of Primary
Audit Risk
Areas of Primary Audit Risk
    Risk of Management Override of Controls – The risk of management override of
    controls was addressed by the following procedures:
     • Assigned staff based on consideration of audit risk.
     • Incorporated an element of unpredictability in the audit.
     • Considered the selection and application of significant accounting principles.
     • Examined journal entries prepared by management.
     • Reviewed accounting estimates for bias.
     • Evaluated the business rationale for unusual transactions.
     • Evaluated the appropriateness of fraud-related inquiries.


    Revenue and Receivables (Taxes, Grants, Notes, etc.) – Improper Revenue
    Recognitions:
     • Confirmed and validated property taxes, and other significant revenues and
       receivables.

                                                                                        12
Areas of Primary Audit Risk
     Pension and OPEB

     • Reviewed management’s journal entries for GASB 68 and GASB 75.
     • Reconciled amounts recorded to reports provided by CalPERS and District’s
       Actuary.
     • Tested the census data used by CalPERS and District’s Actuary.
     • Obtained reports from CalPERS auditor’s plan information for pension


     Estimates – Review of Significant Accounting Estimates:

     • Investment Fair Value Estimates
     • Capital Asset Useful Lives
     • Pension and OPEB related estimates
     • Claim Liabilities Estimates

                                                                                   13
Auditor’s Report
Auditor’s Report
     Auditing Standards

    • Audit performed in accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing
      Standards
    • Audit performed in accordance with Government Auditing
      Standards

     Unmodified Opinions

    • Financial statements are fairly presented in all material respects
    • Significant accounting policies have been consistently applied
    • Estimates are reasonable
    • Disclosures are properly reflected in the financial statements
                                                                           15
Required
Communications
Required Communications
   Auditor’s Responsibilities                              Management’s Responsibilities
  Provide an opinion on whether financial statements are    Take responsibility for the financial statements
  fairly stated in accordance with U.S. GAAP

                                                            Establish and maintain internal control over financial
  Evaluate internal control over financial reporting        reporting
  including tone at the top
                                                            Make all financial records available to us
  Evaluate compliance with laws, contracts, and grants.

                                                            Establish internal control to prevent and detect fraud

  Ensure financial statements are clear and transparent
                                                            Inform us of all known and suspected fraud

  Communicate with the governing body
                                                            Comply with laws and regulations


                                                            Take corrective action on audit findings


                                                                                                                     17
Required Communications
      Independence

      • It is our responsibility to maintain independence
      • We maintained our independence by strict adherence to the AICPA and the
        Board of Accountancy rules and regulations
      • No services performed that could affect our independence.

      Timing of the Audit

      • Within the time frame originally communicated to the District in our
        engagement letters.

      Significant Accounting Policies and Unusual Transactions

      • The District adopted the following new pronouncements during the year:
        • GASB Statement No. 100 – Accounting Changes and Error Corrections

                                                                                  18
Required Communications
     Difficulties Encountered in Performing the Audit
     • No difficulties encountered

     Significant Audit Adjustments and Unadjusted Differences
     • No proposed audit adjustments

     Deficiencies in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
     • No material weaknesses identified




                                                                 19
New Accounting Standards
    2025
    • GASB Statement No. 101 – Compensated Absences
    • GASB Statement No. 102 – Certain Risk Disclosures

    2026
    • GASB Statement No. 103 – Financial Reporting Model
      Improvements
    • GASB Statement No. 104 – Disclosure of Certain Capital Assets




                                                                      20
Thank You for Allowing
us to Provide Audit
Services to the District.
