                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   1           I
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702
~u,~                               ADOPTED
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief       ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                               BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                       SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                Thursday, January 23, 2025
                               Held at the following locations:
                           10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                      Mather, California
                                               &
                                     Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:01 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold, Saylors, Stark, Webber, and Wood. Board members absent: Jones and
  Rice. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  One (1) public comment was received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Goold seconded by Webber and carried unanimously by members present
  to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.      Action Summary Minutes
          Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
          of January 9, 2025.
          Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.      2025 Annual Investment Policy for Pooled Funds
          Recommendation: Receive and ratify the 2025 Annual Investment Policy for
          Sacramento County Pooled Investment Fund.
          Action: Approved the annual investment policy.

  3.      Adopt Resolution - Surplus Vehicle Designation
          Recommendation: Adopt Resolution designating the vehicles listed as surplus.
          Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-001 .

  4.      Purchase Approval - Four (4) BME Type Ill Engines
          Recommendation : Approve the purchase of four (4) BME Type Ill Engines from
          Golden State Fire Apparatus, Inc. utilizing HGACBuy contract number FS12-23.
          Action: Approved the purchase.
5.    Adopt Resolution - Designation of Authorized Agents for Disaster
      Assistance Funding
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution designating Authorized Agents for seeking and or
      managing disaster assistance funding .
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-002.

6.    Nomination of Captain Steve Mayer for Honorary Metro Fire Member
      Recommendation: Approve the nomination of Captain Mayer.
      Action: Approved the nomination.

PRESENTATION ITEMS

1.    FY 2023124 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR), Accompanying
      Audit Reports, and GFOA Certificate of Achievement
      (CFO Dave O' Toole, and Ahmed Badawi, CPA)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation and accept the reports.
      Action: Presentation received and reports accepted.

2.    FY 2023124 Community Annual Report (CAR) and FY 2022123 GFOA Popular
      Annual Financial Reporting Award
      (CFO Dave O' Toole)
      Recommendation: Accept the Community Annual Report.
      Action: Presentation received and report accepted.

ACTION ITEMS

1.    Adopt Resolution - California Senate Bill 1205 Mandatory Inspections & Compliance
      Reporting
      (Deputy Fire Marshal Amy Nygren)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation and adopt the Resolution acknowledging
      receipt of the annual report regarding the inspection of public and private schools and
      certain residential occupancies for the calendar year 2024.
      Action: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-003 acknowledging receipt of a report
      made by the Fire Marshal of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District regarding the
      inspection of certain occupancies required to perform annual inspections in such
      occupancies pursuant to section 13146.2 and 13146.3 of the California Health And
      Safety Code.

2.    Formation of an Ad Hoc Committee to consider the qualifications and selection
      criteria for members of the Measure O Citizens' Oversight Committee.
      (President Wood)
      Recommendation: Appoint three Board Members to an Ad Hoc Committee to consider
      the qualification and selection criteria for members of the Measure O Citizens' Oversight
      Committee and report back recommendations to the Board at the April 10, 2025 Board
      meeting.
      Action: Moved by Director Costa, seconded by Clark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to appoint Directors Jones, Saylors and Webber to an Ad Hoc
      Committee to consider the qualification and selection criteria for members of the
      Measure O Citizens' Oversight Committee and report back recommendations to the
      Board at the April 10, 2025 Board meeting.


1.23.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                Page 2 of 5
REPORTS

1.    PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Goold)

      None

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT- (Chief House)

Good evening, President Wood, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public.

I want to recognize Chief Law again, her last day is tomorrow and she will be missed . Chief
House thanked Chief Law for everything she has done for the District and the community.

I want to welcome home our crews who were down assisting with the fires in Los Angeles,
great job and you are true professionals.

I also want to share that today we have Truck 23 and Engine 29 covering Stockton Fire
Station 7 to assist their members on the loss of Firefighter Robert "Bobby" Van Ruiten who
passed away off duty on January 3, 2025. I would like to request that we take a moment of
silence at the end of the meeting.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

Shift Commander Spotlight

Deputy Chief Mitchell brought up AC Greene to the podium who introduced Captain
Covington from E105 A-Shift. Captain Covington discussed a large grass fire incident in
summer 2024, highlighting the actions of Air Operations and coordination for a sustained fire
attack procedure. He also discussed the role of the Engineer and Firefighter at Station 105
taking leadership roles while he was assigned to Air Operations for 6-7 months annually.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Johnson)
No Report

SUPPORT SERIVES - (Deputy Chief Bailey)

No Report

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
     Captain Scollard thanked Chief House for the Nomination of Captain Steve Mayer for
     Honorary Metro Fire Member and thanked the Board for approving the nomination. We
     have 19 MMP's and 6 Firefighters that will be attending the CAL-JAC Paramedic
     Academy program which will give us 25 additional Paramedics in the District. We had a
     productive Workers Comp Ad Hoc meeting this afternoon and we are moving in the right
     direction.




1.23.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 3 of 5
4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Cammi/lee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
      10545 Am1strong Avenue, Mather, Califomia unless otherw ise specified.

      A.      Executive Committee - (President Goold)

               No Report

       8.     Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
               SRFECC convened on January 14, 2025. There is nothing to report. The next
               board meeting will take place at Metro Fire Headquarters on January 28, 2025,
               at 9:00 AM.

       C.      Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Clark)
               Met tonight and received a presentation of the Bimonthly Fiscal Report through
               October 31 , 2024 from CFO Dave O'Toole.

       D.      Policy Committee - (Director Costa)

               No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Clark thanked the men and women of Metro Fire for their professionalism and the
crews that went to Southern California to help people in need. Also, Godspeed to Chief Law
on her new assignment.

Director Stark echoed the sentiments of Director Clark.

Director Goold said Chief Law leaving is a major loss for this organization. You've done so
much good for this organization from patient care to leadership. I want to thank any
individual within our organization who interacts with the public on a daily basis. Also, I want
to thank our Finance department, you make us proud how you monitor and control the
finances of the District.

Director Webber stated that Chief Law has been very impactful for this organization and
thank you for everything that you have done and best wishes to you.

Director Wood echoed the sentiments of his fellow Directors. The Firefighters Burn Institute
"Fill the Boot for Burns" drive will take place from February 5 - 8th in Citrus Heights, Sunrise
Mall area. All of our men and women including Firefighters and other personnel that can get
out there and help, please sign up with the Burn Institute. Thank you to PIO Parker Wilbourn,
you and your team continue to do great work getting the word out on social media with what
our crews are doing in Los Angeles.

Observed a moment of silence for Stockton Firefighter Robert "Bobby" Van Ruiten.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 7:07 p.m. on the following matter:

 1.    Public Employee Performance Evaluation: Fire Chief
       Pursuant to Government Code Sections 54957(b)(1) and 54954.S(e)

 1.23.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                      Page 4 of 5
CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened to open session at 8:58 p.m . President Wood reported the Board met
in closed session on public employee performance evaluation of the Fire Chief, there was no
reportable action taken.
To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https ://metrofi re.ca.gov/2025-01-23-boa rd-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA


ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:59 p.m.


                                                                  t,.1--
Ted Wood, President




1.23.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                Page 5 of 5
