Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
July 15, 2025

MINUTES - Unapproved

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Brown called the regular meeting to order at 6:36 p.m. Other Board members
present in person: Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Harold Fong, Paul Keefer, Heather
Davis, and Vanessa Caigoy. Board member Lefkovitz participated via Zoom. SCOE
Appointed Board Member Representing Students Judith Marquez was present.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Dr.
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendents Nicolas Schweizer and Brent Malicote, Assistant Superintendents
Jacqueline “Jackie” White, Channa Pitt, and Michael Kast; Executive Director Jerry
Jones; Director Shanine Coats, and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Davis led the Pledge of Allegiance.
President Brown read a land acknowledgement.

2. Organization of the Board of Education for 2025-2026

A. Election of President

President Brown asked if there were public comments on the organization of the Board.
There were no public comments.

President Brown opened nominations for the office of Board President for the 2025-
2026 term.

Trustee Keefer nominated Mariana Corona Sabeniano to serve as Board President for
the 2025-2026 term; second by Trustee Davis. There were no additional nominations.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried

Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown




07.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                       1
Trustee Corona Sabeniano was elected to serve as Board President for the 2025-2026
term.

B. Election of Vice President

Trustee Brown nominated Paul Keefer to serve as Vice President.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown

Trustee Keefer was elected to serve as Vice President for the 2025-2026 term.

A brief recess was taken during which the Board and guests celebrated the Board's
newly elected officers.

President Corona Sabeniano called the meeting back to order at 7:04 p.m.

3. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

There were no public comments.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no presentations from employee organizations.

4. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of May 20, 2025

Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of May 20, 2025 by
Trustee Caigoy, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown

5. Adoption of Agenda

A. Adoption of Agenda

President Corona Sabeniano proposed a revision to the order of agenda items.
Specifically, she recommended that Item 12.F. - Appointment of the Youth County Board
Member be moved up earlier in the meeting to be heard after Item 8.A. which is the
Second Reading and Adoption of Board Resolution 25-07.




07.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                       2
Motion by Trustee Davis to approve the adoption of the agenda with the revision to the
order as proposed by the Board President; second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown

6. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

7. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

In June, SCOE participated in the Sacramento PRIDE Parade—a joyful morning of
visibility and allyship for our LGBTQIA2S+ students, staff, and families. More than a
dozen SCOE employees, friends, and family members marched together, carrying a
banner promoting inclusion and belonging. Our Personnel Team hosted a recruitment
booth, receiving enthusiastic support from the community. A special thank you to
Trustee Caigoy for attending and representing the Board of Education.

This summer, SCOE’s Dual Enrollment program is supporting 184 students from
Upward Bound, Breakthrough Sacramento, 38 district high schools, and SCOE
programs, offering early college opportunities through August 7. Students are taking
seven courses—both in person and online—focused on college readiness and career
skills, from Ethnic Studies to Health Science.

The third cohort of the Career Pipeline: Career Pathways to Success Summer program
launched this month. 135 students completed training in mental health, peer
mentorship, financial literacy, substance use prevention, and career readiness—earning
a stipend along the way. Students were also connected to extension opportunities
through the Sacramento Employment and Training Agency and the Greater Sacramento
Urban League.

SCOE’s Technology Services Department shared their Disaster Recovery and
Cybersecurity expertise at the “Secure ED” Cybersecurity conference at the Twin Rivers
Unified School District office on June 24 and 25. The conference was attended by
district, charter school, and county office technology support staff from all around
Northern California. The training focused on Disaster Preparedness, Disaster Recovery,
Business Continuity, and Cybersecurity “threat hunting.” This training will help our
Sacramento County and regional districts and schools better prepare for natural
disasters and cyber threats.

As part of our Sacramento County READS initiative, we're pleased to share that
enrollment is open for the next virtual cohorts of Getting Reading Right, a year-long
professional learning series designed to build educator knowledge and capacity in



07.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           3
evidence-based literacy instruction. This training supports teachers in implementing the
science of reading through structured literacy practices. This opportunity supports our
ongoing efforts to strengthen literacy outcomes across grade levels and ensure all
students receive high-quality reading instruction.

On June 21, we celebrated with over 100 Northern California Construction Training
(NCCT) graduates at SCOE. These students earned certifications in General
Construction, Electrical, and Welding—many also completed diplomas or GEDs, and
some are already entering union apprenticeships and strong careers. It was inspiring to
deliver the keynote and honor students who are building their futures.

On June 25, we celebrated 54 graduates from our Preliminary Administrative Services
Credential Program (PASCP), representing 16 school districts and five charter schools.
Of these, 35 participated in our ACSA Satellite Program, and 17 pursued a master’s in
Applied Leadership with National University. These rising leaders have completed
rigorous coursework, shown their commitment to equity, and are ready to lead with
compassion, clarity, and courage in the 2025-2026 school year.

On June 29, we joined the Sacramento River Cats and our sponsor, SchoolsFirst
Federal Credi Union, to recognize the 2025 Sacramento County Classified School
Employees of the Year. Thank you, Trustee Keefer, for attending and representing our
Board of Trustees. And thank you Assistant Superintendent Jackie White for attending
and representing SCOE.

The Sacramento County Grand Jury has issued a report with its perspectives and
findings on the extent to which schools are taking advantage of Proposition 28 funding
for increased instruction in visual and performing arts. At their request, we are preparing
a joint response with our local school districts and will share the draft response with the
Board before it is submitted.

On August 13, SCOE will host a Back-to-School Backpack Donation Drive Team Time
here in the Mather Room to support our SCOE Foster Youth Homeless Services
program. Our partner, SchoolsFirst Federal Credit Union, will provide 400 backpacks
and supplies for SCOE students experiencing homelessness.

On Thursday, August 21, 2025 at 9:30 a.m. we will be honoring graduating students
from our Juvenile Court School program at El Centro.

Another important event takes place on Friday, August 22, 2025, SCOE is hosting the
Teachers of the Year Awards Banquet at the Hilton Sacramento Arden West at 2200
Harvard Street at 6:00 p.m.

B. Friends of Sacramento Arts Recognition - Jacqueline White

This agenda item was deferred to the August 12 Board meeting due to an unforeseen
scheduling conflict that prevented our guests from attending.



07.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            4
8. New Business

A. Second Reading and Adoption of Board Resolution No. 25-07 to Recognize and
   Celebrate the Assets and Strengths of Black Students and to Support an Improved
   System that Better Serves Black Children and Youth - Dr. Channa Pitt

Dr. Channa Pitt presented the Second Reading and Adoption of Board Resolution No.
25-07 to Recognize and Celebrate the Assets and Strengths of Black Students and to
Support an Improved System that Better Serves Black Children and Youth.

President Corona Sabeniano asked if there were any public comments.

The following individuals made public comments in support of Resolution 25-07:

Heaven’le James, Za’morian Sherman, Natasha Burja, Rodrigo Guadalupe Miranda,
Christopher Reynaga-Brown, Yesenia Garcia, Adwoa Akyianu, Ragavi Goyal, Uma
Armién Funk, Jailynn Grant, Shakisa Williams, Aliana T. Collins, Zheriah Marshall,
Daniel Chestang, Fox Irvin, Lorreen Pryor, Miles Leathers, and George Harris.
Dr. Pitt facilitated a conversation with Board members about Resolution 25-07. Board
members provided feedback and proposed the following additions to Resolution 25-07:
    • Add in CAASPP data from 2023-2024 and suspension rate from 2023-2024.
    • Add disproportionate representation in high need student groups by calling out
        current Black student enrollment percentage.
    • Add in more specific language around SCOE schools and programs
        implementing their commendations from the report.
    • Use stronger language around the use of student voice in Be It Resolved #2 and
        #5.

Motion by Trustee Caigoy to adopt Resolution 25-07 with the proposed edits (specified
above); second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown

9. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown
Preferential Vote - Abstain: Marquez

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson


07.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          5
C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent White announced that three students have completed all
requirements for high school graduation including one candidate from Nathaniel S.
Colley, Sr. - Senior Extension, one candidate from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School, and
one candidate from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension.

10. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

Trustee Keefer made a motion to approve the contracts with the exception of Pro Youth
and Families, Inc.; second by Trustee Davis.

Trustee Keefer amended his motion to approve contracts with the exception of Pro
Youth and Families, Inc. and Capitol Advisors, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown

Trustee Lefkovitz made a motion to approve the Pro Youth and Families, Inc. contract to
include details about implementation strategies about how fellows will meet with Board
Members and how fellows will advocate for systems and policy change, second by
Trustee Caigoy.

Trustee Fong made a substitute motion to table the Pro Youth and Families, Inc.
contract; Trustee Caigoy seconded the motion.

Final Resolution: Motion Failed
No: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown
Yes: Fong

Trustee Lefkovitz restated her motion to approve the Pro Youth and Families, Inc.
contract to include details about implementation strategies about how fellows will meet
with Board Members and how fellows will advocate for systems and policy change,
second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown
Not Present at Vote: Keefer
Preferential Vote - Yes: Marquez

Motion by Trustee Caigoy to approve the Capitol Advisors contract, second by Trustee
Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Failed



07.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            6
Yes: Lefkovitz, Corona Sabeniano, Brown
No: Fong, Davis, Caigoy
Not Present at Vote: Keefer

11. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget -
David W. Gordon

Motion to approve by Trustee Caigoy, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown
Not Present at Vote: Keefer
Preferential Vote - Not Present at Vote: Marquez

A. Nevada County Probation/Placer County Re-Entry Program (PREP) - Michael Kast

12. New Business - Other

A. Sale of the Jesse Baker Portables to Elk Grove Unified School District - Nicolas
Schweizer

Motion to approve by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Brown

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown
Not Present at Vote: Keefer
Preferential Vote - Abstain: Marquez

B. Resolution No. 25-11 Resolution in Support of Creating a Safe and Positive Learning
Environment - Dr. Nancy Herota

Motion to approve by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Caigoy

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown
Not Present at Vote: Keefer

B. ***Pending Legislation - Assembly Bill 84 Charter School Petition Renewal Extension
   Act and Senate Bill 414 School Accountability and Charter Oversight Reform Act -
   Teresa Stinson - Revised to include Legislative Floor Analysis

Trustee Davis moved to submit a letter of opposition to AB 84 on behalf of the Board;
second by Trustee Caigoy.




07.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          7
Final Resolution: Motion Failed
Yes: Lefkovitz, Davis, Caigoy
No: Fong
Abstain: Corona Sabeniano, Brown
Not Present at Vote: Keefer
Preferential Vote – Abstain: Marquez

Trustee Davis moved to provide a letter of support for SB 414 on behalf of the Board;
second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Davis, Caigoy, Brown
No: Fong
Not Present at Vote: Keefer
Preferential Vote – Yes: Marquez

D. ***Pending Legislation - Senate Bill 249 County Boards of Education Election
Alignment Act - Teresa Stinson - Revised to include Committee Floor Analysis

Trustee Lefkovitz made a motion to provide a letter of opposition to SB 249; second by
Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Davis, Caigoy, Brown
No: Fong
Abstain: Corona Sabeniano
Not Present at Vote: Keefer

E. California School Boards Association (CSBA) Memberships - Dr. Nancy Herota

Motion by Trustee Lefkovitz to continue paying the fees for the CSBA Membership
(2025-2026), Education Legal Alliance (2025-2026), and the Gamut Policy membership
(2025-2026); second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Brown
No: Caigoy
Not Present at Vote: Keefer
Preferential Vote – Abstain: Marquez

F. Appointment of Youth County Board Member - Dr. Nancy Herota

NOTE: This item was presented after the second reading of proposed Resolution No.
25-07 of the Sacramento County Board of Education to Recognize and Celebrate the
Assets and Strengths of Black Students and to Support an Improved System that Better
Serves Black Children and Youth.



07.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           8
Dr. Herota provided background on the recommended candidate for Youth County
Board Member, Ms. Dunbar, as well as an overview of the transition plan.

Motion by Trustee Davis to appoint Nairobi Dunbar as its Youth County Board Member;
second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown
Preferential Vote – Yes: Marquez

G. Adoption of Updated Expulsion Appeal Handbook - Teresa Stinson

Motion by Trustee Fong to adopt the updated Expulsion Appeal Handbook, which
reflects changes in the law and provides more user-friendly explanations of the Board's
expulsion appeal procedures; second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown
Not Present at Vote: Keefer

H. Board Report - State Budget Act 2024-2025 - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Schweizer presented the State Budget Act 2024-2025 Board
report.

I. Board Report - SCOE School of Education - Dr. Nancy Herota

Dr. Herota introduced the SCOE School of Education Board report which was presented
by Dr. Steven Winlock.

J. Year in Review - David W. Gordon

Superintendent Gordon deferred the Year in Review report to a future meeting.

13. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Member Suggestions on Future Agenda Items ("Idea Log")

Trustee Caigoy asked about the status of the August 12, 2025 Closed Session.

Trustee Davis suggested adjusting the order of Board Agenda to move Board reports
earlier in the meeting.

B. Board Members

Trustee Fong - no report.



07.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            9
SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing Students Marquez - no report.

Trustee Davis reported that last week she joined Pro Youth and families at Sac City
College where she sat on a panel and enjoyed spending time with students. She stated
that they really appreciate that SCOE has a student Board member.

Trustee Brown reported that his organization provided free summer camp for youth
ages 6-12 with asthma and has been doing so since 2003. About 65 kids attended this
year and enjoyed healthy food, swimming, rock-climbing, and many other activities.
There are many student nurses and RNs that volunteer to serve at the camp.

Trustee Caigoy thanked the Board and staff for their service and stated that it is her
one-year anniversary on the Board.

C. Board President

No report.

D. Committees

14. Items for Distribution

A. July Events and Site Visits

15. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. August 12, 2025 Regular Board Meeting at 6:30 p.m.

C. September 2, 2025 Regular Board Meeting at 6:30 p.m.

16. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Caigoy, second by Trustee Davis

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy, Brown
Not Present at Vote: Lefkovitz, Keefer

The meeting was adjourned at 10:34 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,


David W. Gordon



07.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           10
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




07.15.25 Board Meeting Minutes   11
