              AMENDED IN ASSEMBLY JUNE 3, 2025
              AMENDED IN ASSEMBLY JUNE 2, 2025
              AMENDED IN ASSEMBLY MAY 5, 2025
           AMENDED IN ASSEMBLY MARCH 19, 2025
           california legislature—2025–26 regular session

ASSEMBLY BILL                                                      No. 84


    Introduced by Assembly Members Muratsuchi and Garcia


                           December 20, 2024



  An act to amend Sections 1240, 14500, 14501, 14503, 14504,
14504.2, 14505, 14506, 14507, 14508, 14509, 17604, 17605, 41020,
41020.2, 41020.3, 41020.5, 41020.8, 41341, 41344.4, 41372, 44258.9,
45037, 45125.1, 47604.32, 47605, 47605.6, 47612.5, 47612.7, 47613,
47634.2, 51745.6, 51746, 51748, and 60119 of, to add Sections 33309.5,
41020.4, 47604.35, 47605.8, 47605.10, 47609, 47613.3, 47634.3, and
51749.7 to, and to add and repeal Section 46306 of, the Education Code,
and to amend Section 20110 of the Public Contract Code, relating to
school accountability.

                      legislative counsel’s digest
   AB 84, as amended, Muratsuchi. School accountability: Office of
the Education Inspector General: school financial and performance
audits: charter school authorization, oversight, funding, operations,
networks, and contracting: data systems: local educational agency
contractor background checks.
  (1) Existing law requires county superintendents of schools to provide
for an audit of all funds under their jurisdiction and control, and requires
the governing board of each local educational agency to either provide


                                                                         95
AB 84                            —2—

for an audit of the books and accounts of the local educational agency
or make arrangements with county superintendents of schools to provide
for that auditing. Existing law requires the governing board of each
school district and each office of the county superintendent of schools
to include specified provisions in their contracts for audits and requires
financial and compliance audits to be performed in accordance with
specified standards. If the governing board of a school district has
entered into a contract for an independent audit of its financial
statements and the audited financial statements have not been filed with
the county superintendent of schools on or before a specified due date,
existing law authorizes the county superintendent of schools to, among
other things, investigate the causes for the delay, as provided.
   This bill would expressly apply the above-described provisions to
educational joint powers authorities and charter schools. The bill, among
other things, would require those financial and compliance audits of
local educational agencies to be conducted in accordance with specified
filing deadlines and would revise requirements regarding which entity
is responsible for providing an audit if a local educational agency has
not provided for an audit of their respective books and accounts to
include the Superintendent of Public Instruction or a chartering authority,
as provided. The bill would require, instead of authorize, a county
superintendent of schools to investigate the causes for an
above-described delay.
   Existing law requires the Controller to, among other things, on an
annual basis, review and monitor the audit reports performed by
independent auditors, determine whether audit reports are in
conformance with specified reporting provisions, and notify each local
educational agency, the responsible county superintendent of schools,
the Superintendent, the Department of Finance, and the auditor regarding
each determination. Existing law authorizes the Controller to perform
quality control reviews of audit working papers to determine whether
audits are performed in conformity with those specified standards.
Existing law requires the Controller to annually report to the State
Department of Education to apprise the department of school districts
and offices of county superintendents of schools that are not in
compliance with applicable statutes and regulations related to audits
and requires the Controller to make recommendations as to what action
should be taken by the department.
   The bill would require the Controller to, if applicable, notify the
responsible chartering authority of each determination made as

                                                                         95
                                 —3—                              AB 84

referenced above. The bill would require the Controller, in performing
quality control reviews, to ensure, among other things, that the selection
of audits for each auditor is representative of each type of local
educational agency, as provided. The bill would require the Controller
to instead report and provide recommendations to the Superintendent
of entities not in compliance with applicable statutes and regulations
and would include educational joint powers authorities and charter
schools as reported entities. The bill would require the Controller to
conduct a quality control review after an authorized certified public
accountant or public accountant, as specified, completes its first local
educational agency financial statement and compliance audit or
completes its first audit after 3 or more years of not having completed
an audit, as provided. The bill would require the Controller, if an
independent auditor has not engaged in financial or compliance audits
for 3 or more consecutive years, to conduct a quality control review
after the auditor completes the first financial or compliance audit.
  The bill, commencing with the 2026–27 fiscal year Guide for Annual
Audits of K–12 Local Education Agencies and State Compliance
Reporting, would require the Controller to include, among other things,
instructions requiring specified supplemental information and schedules
in audit report components for local educational agency audits, as
provided.
  Existing law requires audits to be made by a certified public
accountant or a public accountant, licensed by the California Board of
Accountancy, and in good standing as certified by the California Board
of Accountancy.
  The bill would require, commencing with the 2026–27 fiscal year,
and every 2 years thereafter, certified public accountant firms, certified
public accountants or public accountants, and audit staff that conduct
audits of local educational agencies to have completed 24 hours of
continuing education, to have certified prior experience, and to have
been peer reviewed by the California Board of Accountancy, as
provided.
  To the extent the bill would impose additional duties on local
educational agencies or local officials, the bill would impose a
state-mandated local program.
  (2) Existing law, whenever in the Education Code the power to
contract is invested in the governing board of a school district or any
member thereof, authorizes that power, by a majority vote of the
governing board, to be delegated to its district superintendent, or to any

                                                                        95
AB 84                             —4—

persons the district superintendent may designate, or if there is no district
superintendent, to any other officer or employee of the district that the
governing board may designate, as specified. Existing law similarly
authorizes the designation of school district officers or employees to
exercise the authority to purchase supplies, materials, apparatus,
equipment, and services on behalf of the district. In the event of
malfeasance in office, existing law requires the school district officer
or employee invested by the governing board with the power to contract
to be personally liable for any and all moneys of the school district paid
out as a result of the malfeasance.
  This bill would add similar provisions relating to charter school
governing bodies and charter school officials that may be designated
by those governing bodies in these instances.
  (3) Existing law establishes the State Department of Education, under
the administration of the Superintendent of Public Instruction, and
assigns to it numerous duties relating to the governance and financing
of the public elementary and secondary schools of this state.
  This bill would establish the Office of the Education Inspector General
in the department. The bill would provide for the appointment of the
Education Inspector General by the Governor, subject to confirmation
by a vote of the majority of the membership of the Senate. The bill
would require the Education Inspector General to (A) conduct and
supervise audits and investigations relating to the programs and
operations of the department, school districts, county offices of
education, charter schools, educational joint powers authorities, state
special schools, and entities managing charter schools, (B) provide
leadership and coordination and recommend policies to prevent and
detect fraud and abuse in programs and operations of the department,
local educational agencies, and entities managing charter schools, and
(C) provide a means for keeping the State Board of Education and the
Legislature fully and currently informed about problems and deficiencies
relating to the administration of the programs and operations of the
department, local educational agencies, and entities managing charter
schools and the necessity for and progress of corrective actions that the
Inspector General deems to be appropriate.
  (4) Existing law requires the Commission on Teacher Credentialing
to establish standards for the issuance and renewal of credentials,
certificates, and permits. Existing law requires the commission and the
department to enter into a data sharing agreement for the department
to provide the commission with educator assignment data necessary to

                                                                           95
                                 —5—                             AB 84

annually identify educator misassignments and vacant positions at local
educational agencies, as provided, as part of the State Assignment
Accountability System. Existing law requires the commission to
annually use data it receives from the department to produce an initial
data file of vacant positions and educator assignments that do not have
a clear match of credential to assignment and requires the commission
to notify local educational agencies and monitoring authorities of the
opportunity to access and review the initial data file of potential
misassignments, as defined, and vacant positions. Existing law grants
the commission the authority to make a final determination for all
potential misassignments. Existing law requires, commencing with the
2020–21 school year, the commission to make annual educator
assignment, misassignment, and vacant position data publicly available
on its internet website. Existing law specifies that, for these purposes,
in a charter school, “misassignment” applies only to employees in
teaching positions.
   This bill would delete the provision that limits the application of
“misassignment” in charter schools only to employees in teaching
positions. The bill would require teachers of certain courses offered by
a local educational agency to hold the certificate, permit, or other
document required by the commission for that assignment and be
monitored. To the extent that this provision would create new duties
for county superintendents of schools and local educational agencies,
it would constitute a state-mandated local program.
   (5) Existing law establishes a public school financing system that
requires state funding for school districts, county offices of education,
and charter schools to be calculated pursuant to a local control funding
formula, as specified. Existing law includes average daily attendance
as a component of the calculation under the local control funding
formula. Existing law establishes the California Longitudinal Pupil
Achievement Data System, which is maintained by the State Department
of Education and consists of pupil data from elementary and secondary
schools, as specified, relating to demographics, program participation,
enrollment, and statewide assessments, among other things.
   This bill would require the department to, by January 1, 2030, and in
consultation with the County Office Fiscal Crisis Management
Assistance Team, complete a report with specified data relating to the
possible integration of the California Longitudinal Pupil Achievement
Data System and the average daily attendance apportionment data


                                                                       95
AB 84                             —6—

system, and would require the department to provide the report to the
appropriate policy and fiscal committees of the Legislature, as provided.
  (6) Existing law requires the Superintendent, if, during any fiscal
year, the amount apportioned to a school district or to any fund from
Section A of the State School Fund differs either positively or negatively
from the amount to which the school district or fund was entitled by an
amount equal to the local control funding formula allocation for one
unit of average daily attendance, not later than the first succeeding fiscal
year from the fiscal year in which the computational error was made,
to withhold from, or add to, the apportionment made during that fiscal
year, the amount of the excess of deficiency, as the case may be.
  This bill would require the Superintendent to apply the
above-described provisions to county offices of education and charter
schools. If, during any fiscal year, a school district, county office of
education, or charter school determines that the amount apportioned to
the school district, county office of education, charter school, or to any
fund from Section A of the State School Fund differs either positively
or negatively from the amount to which the school district, county office
of education, charter school, or fund was entitled by an amount equal
to the local control funding formula allocation for one or more units of
average daily attendance, the bill would require the local educational
agency to report the corrected amount to the Superintendent. To the
extent the bill would impose additional duties on a local educational
agency, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
  Existing law requires the governing board of a school district, the
governing body of a charter school, and a county board of education,
except as provided, to use specified moneys apportioned to the local
educational agency during any fiscal year exclusively for the support
of the schools of the local educational agency for that year. Existing
law requires the governing board of a school district to expend a
specified minimum proportion of the school district’s current expense
of education, as defined, during each fiscal year for payment of salaries
of classroom teachers, as provided. Existing law requires state funding
to be calculated and withheld from a school district or county office of
education for any fiscal year in which a person renders service as a
teacher in kindergarten or any of grades 1 to 12, inclusive, who does
not have a valid certification document, as provided.
  The bill would apply the above-described provisions relating to the
payment of salaries of classroom teachers and penalties for a person


                                                                          95
                                 —7—                             AB 84

rendering services as a teacher who does not have a valid certification
document to charter schools, as provided.
   (7) The Charter Schools Act of 1992 authorizes the establishment,
operation, and governance of charter schools. Existing law requires a
petition to establish a charter school to include reasonably
comprehensive descriptions of certain things, including the manner in
which annual, independent financial audits shall be conducted, and the
manner in which audit exceptions and deficiencies shall be resolved to
the satisfaction of the chartering authority.
   Commencing July 1, 2028, the bill would require each chartering
authority to annually (A) verify specified data relating to the reporting
of average daily attendance by nonclassroom-based charter schools,
(B) notify the certified public accountant or accountant performing the
audit of the charter school if the charter school does not provide the
required documentation needed to verify the specified data, (C) attend
a meeting of the governing body of the charter school and, if applicable,
a meeting of the governing body of the entity managing the charter
school, and (D) monitor payments of charter schools to verify that the
payments are legal and have proper authorization, as provided.
   The bill would require the State Board of Education, in consultation
with the Superintendent of Public Instruction, to revise regulations to
require charter schools to report periodic and annual financial data in
the same manner and on the same form prescribed for school districts.
The bill would phase in, from the 2026–27 fiscal year to the 2028–29
fiscal year, inclusive, and based on the average daily attendance of the
charter school and whether the charter school is a nonclassroom-based
charter school, the requirement that charter schools report this data in
the same manner and on the same form prescribed for school districts,
as provided.
   The bill would require teachers and service providers, including pupil
personnel service providers, administrators, and any other positions for
which certification qualifications have been established, as provided,
in charter schools to hold the Commission on Teacher Credentialing
certificate, permit, or other document required for assigning individuals
to certified positions.
   The bill would require the state board to appoint an advisory
committee on charter schools that would include representatives from
school district superintendents, charter schools, teachers, members of
the governing boards of school districts, county superintendents of
schools, and the Superintendent.

                                                                       95
AB 84                            —8—

  The bill would prohibit a school district with an average daily
attendance of fewer than 10,000 pupils from authorizing one or more
nonclassroom-based charter schools or approving a material revision
to expand one or more nonclassroom-based charter schools if doing so
would result in more than a totality of 100% of the average daily
attendance of the school district and would create an exception for a
nonclassroom-based charter school in operation on or before December
31, 2025, that exceeds that limitation if, as of December 31, 2025,
certain requirements are met.
  The bill would establish the Charter Authorizing Support Team
program, to be administered by the County Office Fiscal Crisis and
Management Assistance Team, in consultation with the State
Department of Education, as an initiative to expand uniform charter
school authorizing and oversight practices. The bill would specify the
goals and proposed activities of the program, including the appointment
of a 13-member advisory board with designated membership and
responsibilities.
  Existing law authorizes a chartering authority to charge for the actual
costs of supervisorial oversight of a charter school (A) not to exceed
1% of the revenue of the charter school or (B) not to exceed 3% of the
revenue of the charter school if the charter school is able to obtain
substantially rent-free facilities from the chartering authority.
  The bill would create an exception for a chartering authority to exceed
the above-described limit of 1% of the revenue of the charter school if
the chartering authority is granted approval from the state board, except
that under no circumstances shall oversight fees exceed 1% of the
revenue of a charter school that is located on a federally recognized
California Indian reservation or rancheria or operated by a federally
recognized California Indian tribe.
  On and after July 1, 2026, the bill would require charter schools to
comply with specified requirements relating to the expenditure of public
funds for the payment of contractors, and would require the extent of
the charter school’s compliance with these requirements to be reviewed
and reported as part of the annual, independent financial audit that the
charter school is required to submit. The bill would require charter
schools to obtain the approval of the governing body of the charter
school for any contracts, as provided.
  Existing law prohibits the governing board of a school district from
denying a petition to establish a charter school unless it makes written
factual findings in support of one or more specific findings including,

                                                                       95
                                  —9—                               AB 84

among others, a finding that the school district is not positioned to
absorb the fiscal impact of the proposed charter school.
  The bill would additionally provide that a school district may
demonstrate that the school district is not positioned to absorb that fiscal
impact if, for the period of time that a county superintendent of schools
is authorized to reassume the legal rights, duties, and powers of the
governing board of the school district, the school district has exited
state receivership and (A) has a qualified interim certification or (B)
the county superintendent of schools, in consultation with the County
Office Fiscal Crisis and Management Team, certifies that approving a
charter school would result in the school district having a qualified or
negative interim certification, as provided.
  The bill would, beginning July 1, 2026, revise and recast provisions
of the act relating to the reporting of average daily attendance by charter
schools, and would distinguish between the determination of funding
for charter schools that offer less than 75% of instructional time at the
schoolsite and require the attendance of all pupils for less than 75% of
the minimum instructional time required to be offered and charter
schools that offer 75% or more, respectively. The bill would require
charter schools to adhere to specified criteria when submitting a funding
determination request, as provided. The bill would require the
Superintendent of Public Instruction to notify the chartering authority
of a charter school that is maintaining an unassigned fund balance for
economic uncertainties that is 5% or less of the charter school’s annual
expenditures.
  Beginning with the 2027–28 school year, the bill would require the
State Department of Education to annually develop a list that identifies
networks of nonclassroom-based charter schools, as defined, based on
data from the prior school year.
  To the extent that these additions to the act would impose new duties
on local educational agencies, they would constitute a state-mandated
local program.
  (8) Existing law authorizes a school district, county office of
education, or charter school to offer independent study to meet the
educational needs of pupils when certain requirements are met,
including, among others, that the local educational agency has adopted
written policies, and implemented those policies, in accordance with
rules and regulations adopted by the Superintendent, as specified.
Existing law, for purposes of independent study, requires those programs
to meet specified average-daily-attendance-to-certificated-employee

                                                                          95
AB 84                            — 10 —

ratios. Existing law prohibits school districts and county offices of
education from being eligible to receive apportionment for independent
study attendance by any pupil who is not otherwise identified in the
written records of the school district or county board of education, as
provided.
  This bill would, among other things, extend the latter-described
prohibition        to     charter       schools,       revise     required
average-daily-attendance-to-certificated-employee ratios, and add
requirements to the independent study policies and procedures, as
provided.
  The bill would prohibit a local educational agency from allocating,
or advertising the availability of, funds or credits to be spent at the
discretion of a pupil’s parent, guardian, or education rights holder for
educational enrichment activities that are (A) not provided by a
credentialed employee of the local educational agency for the pupil and
(B) are paid for by the local educational agency.
  (9) Existing law requires any entity that has a contract with a school
district, county office of education, or charter school to ensure that any
employee who interacts with pupils, outside of the immediate
supervision and control of the pupil’s parent or guardian or a school
employee, has a valid criminal records summary, as specified.
  This bill would require an entity that has a contract with a local
educational agency to instead ensure any employee who interacts with
pupils has a valid criminal records summary without regard to whether
the interaction takes place outside of the immediate supervision and
control of the pupil’s parent or guardian or a school employee.
  (10) The Local Agency Public Construction Act regulates, among
other things, the letting of contracts by school district governing boards
involving an expenditure of more than $50,000 for specified purposes,
including the purchase of equipment, materials, or supplies to be
furnished, sold, or leased to the district, services other than construction
services, and repairs, including maintenance, as defined.
  This bill would extend to charter schools the provisions of the act
that currently apply to school districts. To the extent the bill would
impose additional duties on charter schools, the bill would impose a
state-mandated local program.
  (11) The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local
agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state.
Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.


                                                                          95
                              — 11 —                          AB 84

  This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates
determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state,
reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to the statutory
provisions noted above.
   Vote: majority. Appropriation: no. Fiscal committee: yes.​
State-mandated local program: yes.​
