              AMENDED IN SENATE APRIL 30, 2025
             AMENDED IN SENATE MARCH 10, 2025

SENATE BILL                                                    No. 249


                   Introduced by Senator Umberg


                           January 30, 2025



   An act to amend Sections 1007 and 1009 of, and to repeal Section
1017 of, the Education Code, and to amend Sections 1302 and 10404.5
of the Elections Code, relating to county boards of education.

                     legislative counsel’s digest
   SB 249, as amended, Umberg. County boards of education: elections:
consolidation.
  The California Constitution requires the Legislature to provide for
the appointment or election of the State Board of Education and a board
of education in each county or for the election of a joint county board
of education for 2 or more counties.
  Existing law requires the regular election to select governing board
members in any school district, community college district, or county
board of education to be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday
in November of each odd-numbered year. Notwithstanding that
requirement, after the initial election, any subsequent election of
governing board members in any school district, community college
district, or county board of education may be established, upon the
adoption of an appropriate resolution by the governing board or the
county board of education, to regularly occur on the same day as the
statewide direct primary election, the statewide general election, or the
general municipal election, as specified.
  This bill, notwithstanding any other law, and commencing January
1, 2026, would require any election for the elected members of a county


                                                                       97
SB 249                          —2—

board of education to instead be consolidated with the statewide general
election. The bill would require the term of office of all incumbent
elected members of a county board of education to be extended
accordingly, and would require the county committee on school district
organization to determine the manner in which the county board of
education elected shall effect a staggering of terms, if necessary. By
imposing additional duties on local officials, the bill would impose a
state-mandated local program. The bill also would make conforming
changes.
  The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local
agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state.
Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
  This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates
determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state,
reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to the statutory
provisions noted above.
   Vote: majority. Appropriation: no. Fiscal committee: yes.​
State-mandated local program: yes.​
