                AMENDED IN SENATE MAY 1, 2025
             AMENDED IN SENATE MARCH 26, 2025

SENATE BILL                                                      No. 414


                    Introduced by Senator Ashby


                            February 14, 2025



   An act to amend Sections 14502.1, 41020, 41020.5, 42238.024,
43521, 46211, 47604.1, 47604.3, 47604.32, 47604.5, 47605, 47605.1,
47612.5, 47612.7, 47613, 47614.5, 47616.7, 47634.2, 51744, 51745.6,
and 51747 of, to add Sections 41020.4 and 41020.6 to, and to add Article
11 (commencing with Section 51820) and Article 11.5 (commencing
with Section 51827) to Chapter 5 of Part 28 of Division 4 of Title 2 of,
the Education Code, and to amend Section 811.2 of the Government
Code, relating to school accountability.

                      legislative counsel’s digest
   SB 414, as amended, Ashby. School accountability: school financial
and performance audits: chartering authorities: tort liability: educational
enrichment activities: flex-based instruction.
  (1) Existing law requires county superintendents of schools to provide
for an audit of all funds under their jurisdiction and control, and requires
the governing board of each local educational agency to either provide
for an audit of the books and accounts of the local educational agency
or make arrangements with county superintendents of schools to provide
for that auditing. Existing law requires those audits to be made by a
certified public accountant or a public accountant, licensed by the
California Board of Accountancy, and selected by the local educational
agency, as applicable, from a directory of certified public accountants
and public accountants deemed by the Controller as qualified to conduct
audits of local educational agencies.


                                                                         97
SB 414                           —2—

  Under existing law, once the Controller or county superintendent of
schools makes a final determination that specified audits performed by
a certified public accountant or public accountant were not performed
in substantial conformity with provisions of an audit guide, or that the
audit reports do not conform to the provisions of an audit guide, the
certified public accountant or public accountant is ineligible to conduct
specified audits for 3 years. Existing law requires the Controller to
notify each school district and county office of education of those
certified public accountants or public accountants determined to be
ineligible pursuant to these provisions.
  This bill would impose additional requirements on certified public
accountants and public accountants relating to training specific to local
educational agencies in order to, after the 2026–27 fiscal year, be added
to or remain on the Controller’s directory of certified public accountants
and public accountants deemed qualified to conduct audits of local
educational agencies, as provided.
  The bill would require an auditor of a local educational agency to,
among other things, ensure that all sampling of documents or records
necessary for the audit are independently selected by the auditor and
would require an auditor of a local educational agency that offers
independent study to verify the pupil-to-teacher ratio of the school or
program and include that information in the audit, as provided. The bill
would extend the above-described rules related to the ineligibility of
the certified public accountant or public accountant to audits of charter
schools, as provided, and would additionally require the Controller to
notify charter schools of those certified public accountants or public
accountants determined to be ineligible to conduct audits, as provided.
  (2) Existing law requires the Controller, in consultation with the
Department of Finance and the State Department of Education, to
develop a plan to review and report on financial and compliance audits,
and with representatives of other entities, to recommend the statements
and other information to be included in the audit reports filed with the
state by local educational agencies, and to propose the content of an
audit guide. Existing law requires the audit guide to include specified
content, as provided.
  This bill would require the Controller to consult with representatives
of 2 additional specified entities and would require the audit guide to
include a variety of additional content relating to audits of a local
educational agency, as provided.


                                                                        97
                                 —3—                             SB 414

   (3) The Charter Schools Act of 1992 requires each charter school to
transmit a copy of its annual, independent financial audit report for the
preceding fiscal year to the county office of education, the Controller,
and the State Department of Education by December 15 of each year.
   The act authorizes the establishment, operation, and governance of
charter schools. Existing law authorizes a charter school that has an
approved charter to receive funding for nonclassroom-based instruction
only if a determination for funding is made by the State Board of
Education, as specified.
   By January 31, 2026, and by January 31 of each year thereafter, this
bill would require the governing body of a charter school to review, at
a public meeting as an item on the agenda, the annual audit of the charter
school for the prior fiscal year, any audit exceptions identified in that
audit, the recommendations or findings of any management letter issued
by the auditor, and any description of correction or plans to correct any
exceptions or management letter issue. By imposing additional
requirements on charter schools, the bill would impose a state-mandated
local program.
   The bill would replace the term “nonclassroom-based instruction”
with “flex-based instruction” and define a “flex-based charter school”
as a charter school that receives a determination for funding from the
state board, as described above. The bill would also make numerous
nonsubstantive and conforming changes.
   (4) Existing law requires each chartering authority to, among other
things, monitor the fiscal condition of each charter school under its
authority. Existing law authorizes the state board to, based upon the
recommendation of the Superintendent of Public Instruction, take
appropriate action when the state board finds, among other things, illegal
or substantially improper use of charter school funds for the personal
benefit of any officer, director, or fiduciary of the charter school, as
provided.
   This bill would include in the monitoring of the fiscal condition of a
charter school a review of a sample of credit and debit card transactions
of each charter school under its authority. The bill would require a
chartering authority to provide the governing body of the charter school
with feedback on any issues of concern identified in the review, as
provided. The bill, if the chartering authority has reasonable suspicion
that fraud, misappropriations of public funds, embezzlement, or other
financial crimes, may be occurring, would require a chartering authority
to notify the State Department of Education and the county office of

                                                                        97
SB 414                           —4—

education. The bill would require the state board, or the state board’s
designee, to promptly investigate allegations of false claims or
misappropriation of public funds by charter schools if there is probable
cause to believe that those crimes have occurred. By imposing additional
requirements on charter schools and local educational agencies acting
as chartering authorities, the bill would impose a state-mandated local
program.
  The bill would require the Legislative Analyst’s Office to, on or before
October 1, 2027, study the processes used by other states to authorize,
fund oversight, monitor, and renew charter schools, and convene an
advisory group of experts on charter school operations and charter
authorizing to advise the Legislative Analyst’s Office on carrying out
that study, as provided.
  (5) Existing law provides for the apportionment of state funding to
a charter school based on the average daily attendance that is generated
by pupils engaged in nonclassroom-based instruction, as defined, in
accordance with prescribed criteria and procedures.
  This bill would authorize the State Board of Education to adjust the
amount of funding to be allocated to a charter school if the state board
makes a finding of demonstrable financial abuse, profiteering, or grossly
excessive administrative expenses. The bill would require the state
board to, on or before May 31, 2027, review and revise regulations
governing the funding determination process for flex-based charter
schools to be consistent with specified criteria, as provided.
  (6) Commencing July 1, 2026, this bill would require a school district,
county office of education, or charter school to only enter into an
agreement for the provision or arrangement of educational enrichment
activities with a vendor that is vetted and approved pursuant to the bill.
The bill would authorize a local educational agency to expend public
funds for the provision or arrangement of educational enrichment
activities, provided that all educational enrichment activities, materials,
and programs are nonsectarian.
  The bill would require the governing board or body of a local
educational agency, in approving any contract for vendor services for
educational enrichment activities, to establish specified policies and
procedures to ensure educational value, pupil safety, and fiscal
reasonableness, and would further require that these policies ensure
that vendor services for educational enrichment activities meet
designated criteria. The bill would require auditing of approval of, and
compliance with, policies and procedures established under the bill to

                                                                         97
                                 —5—                            SB 414

be included in designated annual audit reports. The bill would require
a vendor contract that will exceed $100,000 in a fiscal year to be
approved by the governing board or body of the local educational agency
in an open public meeting. The bill would also require any educational
enrichment activity provided by a school to be approved and verified
by the pupil’s assigned teacher as relevant to specific educational
assignments and educationally appropriate for that pupil.
  (7) The Government Claims Act provides for the liability and
immunity of a public entity, as defined, for its acts or omissions that
cause harm to persons, and defines a public entity for these purposes.
  This bill would expressly include charter schools within the definition
of “public entity” for purposes of the act.
  (8) The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local
agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state.
Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
  This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates
determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state,
reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to the statutory
provisions noted above.
   Vote: majority. Appropriation: no. Fiscal committee: yes.​
State-mandated local program: yes.​
