       l           I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   ~.;,~                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700

  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief

                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                           Thursday, November 9, 2023 - 6:00 PM
                                            Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                                  10545 Armstrong Avenue
D'Elman Clark
                                                 Board Room - Second Floor
Board President                                       Mather, California
Division 6                                                    &
Grant Goold                                          Remotely Via Zoom
Board Vice President                            Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Division 2
                                                    Passcode: metro2101
Ted Wood                                  Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Board Secretary
Division 4                                         if Passcode: 838771796 #
                         https://us06web.zoom .us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ1 Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Cinthia Saylors
Board Member
Division 1
                       The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Robert Webber              and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.
Board Member
Division 3

Jennifer Sheetz        The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Board Member           the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
Division 5
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
Brian Rice             Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 7
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Gay Jones              reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Board Member           reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
Division 8
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
John Costa             accommodations:
Board Member
Division 9
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2023


►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District will be cablecast on Metro Cable
14, the local government affairs channel on Comcast, Consolidated Communications and
AT&T U-Verse cable systems. This meeting is also webcast at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov.
Today's meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday, November 13, 2023 and again at 2:00
p.m. on Wednesday, November 15, 2023 on Channel 14. This meeting can also be
viewed at youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers' comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                  Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                          6
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meetings of October 12, 2023.

2.     Adopt Resolution - Sale of Real Property - Oak Ave                                                              16
       Recommendation: Adopt Resolution reauthorizing the Fire Chief or his
       designee to affect the sale of Property to the offerer.
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (91 6) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2023


3.     Employer's Contribution Under the Public Employees' Medical and Hospital         18
       Care Act - CalPERS Resolutions
       A. Resolution - Fixing SMFD's Vesting Contribution Under Section 28962           19
                        of the Public Employees' Medical and Hospital Care Act -
                        000 All Employees
       B. Resolution - Fixing the Employer Contribution at an Equal Amount for           21
                        Employees and Annuitants Under the Public Employees' Medical
                        and Hospital Care Act - 000 All Employees
       C. Resolution - Fixing the Employer Contribution at an Equal Amount for           23
                        Employees and Annuitants Under the Public Employees' Medical
                        and Hospital Care Act - 700 All Employees (Non-PERS)
       Recommendation : Adopt Resolutions establishing the health premium
       contributions to reflect the new benefit cap with CalPERS effective January 1, 2024.

4.     Purchase Approval - DOT System Decontamination Bags for            25
       Contaminated Turnout Gear
       Recommendation: Authorize the purchase of DOT System Decontamination
       Bags from Thin Red Line Decon.

5.     Purchase Approval - Four (4) Squad Units                              33
       Recommendation: Approve the purchase of four (4) 2024 Squad Units from
       Braun Northwest, Inc. utilizing HGACBuy contract #AM10-23.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.     Fireworks Enforcement After Action Review                                                                       39
       (Fire Marshal Barbie Law)
       Recommendation: Receive presentation.

ACTION ITEMS:
None

REPORTS:
1.     PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                (President Clark)

2.     FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Chief House)
             OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
             ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Bailey)
             SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

3.     SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice
       President)
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2023


4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
      Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

      A.      Executive Committee - (President Clark)
              Next Meeting: TBD

      8.      Communications Center JPA - (AC Greene)
              Next Meeting: November 14, 2023 at 9:00 AM

      C.      Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
              Met: October 26, 2023 at 5:00 PM

      D.      Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
              Next Meeting: December 14, 2023

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matters:

1.    CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - EXISTING LITIGATION -
      Pursuant to California Government Code Section§ 54956.9(d)(1): Six Cases

      A. Case No. 34-2020-00286706-CU-BC-GDS
         Medic Ambulance Service, Inc. v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

      8. Case No. 34-2021-00293046
         White v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

      C. Case No. 34-2023-00337894
         Harrison v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

      D. Case No. 34-2022-00315218
         Saechao v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

      E. Case No. 34-2021 -00297477
         Samaan v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

      F. Case No. 34-2022-00318898
           Hanna v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2023


2.       CONFERENCE WITH LABOR NEGOTIATOR
         Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6
         A. District Negotiator:   Deputy Chief Bailey
            Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

         B. District Negotiator:   Deputy Chief Bailey
            Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                   Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

         C. District Negotiator:   Deputy Chief Bailey
            Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                   Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

         D. District Negotiator:   Deputy Chief Bailey
            Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                   and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

         E. District Negotiator:   Deputy Chief Bailey
            Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                   and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •   Regular Board Meeting - December 14, 2023 at 6:00 PM


Posted on November 2, 2023 by 4:30 p.m.



Marni Rittbur~Mc,CP
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
•"OD Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief
                  ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                                  BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                        SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                 Thursday, October 12, 2023
                               Held at the following locations:
                           10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                      Mather, California
                                               &
                                     Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER
  The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm by President Clark. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Jones, Rice, Saylors, Sheetz, Webber and Wood . Board members absent:
  Goold. Staff present: Deputy Chief Mitchell and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  Public comments were received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by
  members present to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.      Action Summary Minutes
          Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
          Board Meeting of September 14, 2023.
          Action: Approved the Action Summary Minutes
  2.      Adopt Resolution - Bid Award - Station Access Control (Phase 3)
          Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution approving the Request for Exception
          to Formal Solicitation Process and award a contract to Access Systems, Inc.
          Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-063 approving the Request for Exception to
          Formal Solicitation Process and award a contract to Access Systems, Inc.

  3.      Adopt Resolution - Contract for Emergency Medical Services (EMS)
          Cost Recovery Services
          Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution authorizing the Fire Chief or his
          designee to execute a professional services agreement with Wittman
          Enterprises, LLC for the provision of EMS cost recovery, effective January 1,
          2024.



                                                                                                             P6
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-064 authorizing the Fire Chief or his
      designee to execute a professional services agreement with Wittman
      Enterprises, LLC for the provision of EMS cost recovery, effective January 1,
      2024.

PRESENTATION ITEMS

1.    EMS Award of Excellence Plaque in Wildland Fire EMS/Rescue Awarded
      To Metro Fire's Air Operations Division
      (BC Grant Russell)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation.
      Action: Presentation received.

2.    Advocacy Action Plan Presentation
      (Director of Government Affairs Kyle Macdonald)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.
      Action: Presentation received.

ACTION ITEMS

1.    Adopt Resolution - Project Delivery Method - Zinfandel Phase 3 Buildout
      (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
      Recommendation:        Adopt the Resolution approving the use of the design-build
      construction delivery method and authorize related acts for the design and construction of
      the Zinfandel Phase 3 Buildout project.
      Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by
      members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-065 approving the use of the design-build
      construction delivery method and authorize related acts for the design and construction of
      the Zinfandel Phase 3 Buildout project.

2.    Adopt Resolutions - FY 2023/24 Capital Improvement Plan Amendment
      (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
      Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution amending the FY 2023/24 Capital
      Improvement Plan and the Budget Amendment Resolutions.
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by roll
      call vote of members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-066, amending the FY 2023/24
      Capital Improvement Plan.
      Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by roll
      call vote of members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-067, adopting a budget
      amendment to the final budget for the general fund 212A for the fiscal year 2023/24.
      Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by roll
      call vote of members present to Adopt Resolution 2023-068, adopting a budget
      amendment to the final budget for the capital facilities fund 212d for the fiscal year
      2023/24.

10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 2 of 10




                                                                                                P7
3.    Industrial Disability Retirement - Engineer Steven Caldwell
      Recommendation:           After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a
      Resolution finding Engineer Steven Caldwell has suffered job related injuries and is
      eligible-for an Industrial Disability Retirement.
      Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by
      roll call vote of members present to adopt Resolution 2023-069 pursuant To
      Government Code Section 21156 - finding Engineer Steven Caldwell has suffered job
      related injuries and is eligible for an Industrial Disability Retirement.

4.    Industrial Disability Retirement - Captain Colin Swarthout
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
      finding Captain Colin Swarthout has suffered job related injuries and is eligible for an
      Industrial Disability Retirement.
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2023-070 pursuant To Government Code
      Section 21156 -finding Captain Colin Swarthout has suffered job related injuries and is
      eligible for an Industrial Disability Retirement.

REPORTS

1.    PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Clark)

      No Report

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

     I am filling in for Chief House this evening as he is attending a Public Safety
     Cloud Workshop today at Microsoft's office in Mountain View, along with Chief
     Wagaman and other Ca Metro Fire Chiefs Association and Western Fire Chiefs
     Association members.

     1. Members
         a. It is with profound sadness that I inform you of the peaceful passing of:
                 • Captain Robert "Bob" Bruce (Ret.) on Saturday morning, October
                    7, at his residence in Galt. Captain Bruce dedicated 24 years of
                    faithful service to our community and retired from Metro Fire on
                    December 30, 2017. He leaves behind his beloved wife, Denise,
                    and their son, Hunter.

                    Captain Bruce had a positive impact on everyone he came into
                    contact with, both within Metro Fire and the broader community. He
                    was a truly exceptional individual, known for his kindness and
                    unwavering commitment to helping others.



10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 3 of 10




                                                                                                 P8
                    During this difficult time, the Bruce family kindly requests privacy.
                    Captain Parker Wilbourn has been assigned as Metro Fire's Liaison
                    for the family. Further information will be shared as it becomes
                    available.

                    Please keep the Bruce family in your thoughts.

          b. Promotion Ceremony
             On October 3, the District held a Promotion Ceremony for 21 members (3
             professional staff, 2 battalion chiefs, 12 captains, and 4 engineers) who
             were promoted from March through October. The ceremony went very
             well, and it was a great opportunity to celebrate, along with friends and
             families, the milestone for each member honored that evening.

             Thank you to all the members who had a hand in putting together this
             important event, especially the Community Relations Division, for the big
             lift in coordinating the entire event and the family, friends, and current and
             retired members who attended.

             I am excited to announce that the District has re-engaged communication
             with our community through a quarterly e-newsletter, Metro Fire Scene.
             The first newsletter was distributed on October 9.

             The Metro Fire Scene Newsletter aims to create meaningful and long-
             lasting relationships with residents, local businesses, and community-
             based organizations through consistent communication and relevant
             safety information, upcoming events, Metro Fire highlights, and much
             more! If you haven't already, check it out.

     2. New Hire(s)
        Please join me in welcoming:
         a. Sayed Sadat, hired for the position of Administrative Specialist in the
            Support Services Branch, effective September 18. Sayed came to the
            podium to say hello and provided a brief personal history to the board .

          b. Tania Zamora, reinstated for the position of Paramedic in the Metro
             Medic Program (MMP), effective October 4, 2023.

     3. Promotion(s)
        Congratulations to Kendra Clark, who was promoted to Administrative
        Specialist in CRRD, effective September 19. Kendra came to the podium to
        say hello and provided a brief personal history to the board. Kendra
        introduced her dog Peppermint that she trains for Canine Companions.
10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                 Page 4 of 10




                                                                                               pg
    4. Retirement(s)                                            _
       The District would like to congratulate Engineer Christopher Nelson on his
       retirement on October 10, 2023, after 29 years of service.

    5. Reassignment(s)
        a. The following members were selected to join Drill Master Dillon Fader for
           the 23-2 MMP Academy as Drill Instructors. The Academy started on
           October 9:
               i. FF Kyle DiBiase
              ii. Paramedic Diana Borshch

          b. Congratulations to Captain Jeremy Crawford for being selected to fill the
             Training Day Captain assignment 1 effective October 9, 2023.

             Captain Jason Cahill was reassigned from the Training Day Captain
             position to Suppression, effective September 4, 2023. The District would
             like to thank Captain Cahill for his dedication and commitment while
             working in Training.

     6. Recruitment(s)
       The District is accepting:
         a. Letters of interest from the rank of Captain/Paramedic for the position of
            EMS Day Captain with a final filing date of October 11 by 4 PM.

          b. Letters of interest from non-probationary Firefighters, Engineers, and
             Captain for the position of Drill Instructor for the 23-1 Fire Academy,
             which is scheduled to run from January 16 through May 17, 2024. Letters
             of interest are due by 4 PM on October 23.

          c. Applications (internal/external) for the position of Fire Mechanic with a
             final filing date of October 31 by 4 PM.

     7. Lift Assist Fee Follow Up
         a. On June 8, 2023, Interim FC Haverty brought an item to the Board about
             exploring a lift assist fee when we respond to for-profit care facilities for
             patient assistance requests
         b. The July 27 th adopted fee schedule Ordinance 2023-02 included this fee
             structure (recovery of actual costs) and allows us to continue to explore
             implementation.
         c. There are a number of items to consider when we look at this fee, many
             of which the Board discussed back in June (ensuring its use was limited
             to for-profit healthcare facilities, what is the legal definition and required
             training level of a healthcare facility that calls, etc.).
10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                Page 5 of 10




                                                                                              P10
          d. Notably, the data from 2022 initially indicates that 95 calls out of 3298
             (2.8%) occurred in a healthcare facility. Also notable, a vast majority
             (1262, or 38%) of the calls occurred in one- and two-family residences.
          e. Staff will continue to look into it further and come back with a
             recommendation in the future.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (AC Greene)

Air Operations Update:

This evening I will walk you through the events that have occurred over the past 10 days in
Air Operations. Our goal remains 100% transparency with the event and process to bring Air
Operations back into service. This report will focus on a high-level overview, as a Green
Sheet is pending distribution which will highlight the details of the situation.

On Tuesday October 3, 2023, Copter 1 had completed training operations over Folsom Lake
and was returning to Station 115 when its crew door departed the helicopter in flight over
Granite Bay. The door struck the roof of a house, causing minimal damage. The door was
located and positive contact made with the homeowner. There we no injuries to our flight
crew or the public. Air Operations immediately moved into a Safety Stand-Down and remains
in this mode until further notice. Over the past week the Support Services Branch has worked
diligently with the homeowner to repair the roof.

The Operations Branch solicited assistance from the CalFire Aviation Management Unit to
collect the facts of the event and provide recommendations to move forward with the process.
This took several days for them to complete, and their partnership in firefighting aviation is to
be commended.

The Executive Team and all Assistant Chief's met with the Air Operations Division on
Wednesday October 11 to review the event and facts that have been determined at this time.
The specific details as to the event and contributing factors will be released in Green Sheet
format by the end of this week to ensure our transparency. We are currently putting a plan
together to address the repairs of Copter 1 and any modifications that may be necessary for
Copter 2. We look forward to communicating this plan once complete.

Civil Unrest Potential Relating to Current Events in Israel

On 11 October 2023, a video circulating on multiple social media platforms shows former
Hamas leader calling for action. It is reported to call for Muslims to engage in violent action,
specifically for Muslims in the nations surrounding Israel to enter the war on Hamas' behalf
on Friday, 13 October 2023.

The District receives communications directly from the Central California Intelligence Center,
who is not aware of any specific or credible threat to the Eastern District of California at this
time. Our priority remains to ensure the safety of our members and uninterrupted service
delivery. We work closely with local law enforcement and follow our civil unrest operational
plans on a case-by-case basis.

10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 6 of 10




                                                                                                    P11
    ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Bailey)

    COMMUNITY RELATIONS DIVISION
•   Station 42 was dedicated on 9/29/23 to Captain Mike Guzman and Engineer Kyle Rutherford.
•   Transfer of Command Ceremony will be held on 10/24/23 at Cordova High School.
•   Fire prevention week October 8-14. The theme is "Cooking Safety Starts with YOU!" This is a
    reminder to our community that cooking fires are the number one cause of home fires and home
    fire-related injuries.
                o Flat Flare is our social media campaign this year.
•   Cancer awareness and early detection are so important to· Metro Fire that we wrap a fire engine
    every year, one side is pink for breast cancer awareness and the other is blue for Movember the
    month designated as for awareness of men's cancer such as prostate cancer. Thank you to Pro
    Style Wraps, the Sacramento Kings, the City of Rancho Cordova, and several other organizations
    for sponsoring the wrap this year. On 10/2/23 we kicked off the campaign with a media day
    where we saw all the local media outlets. Tonight, you saw the engine parked outside as you
    arrived for this board meeting. You may have noticed we added a banner in honor of Captain
    Bob Bruce. While working here, Captain Bob Bruce introduced the idea of the cancer engine in
    part due to his fight with cancer while working here. Unfortunately, Captain Bruce passed away
    on October 7, 2023. The cancer engine will be making appearances all around the district over
    the next two months. Here are some upcoming events:
                o Thursday, October 19 - Kings Game - Cancer Awareness game
                o Saturday, October 21 - Sac State football game
                o Wednesday, November 1 - State of the ~ity of Rancho Cordova
                o Various other photo shoots with various agencies including Rancho Cordova PD
                     and Fire Dispatch

    FINANCE
•   The Finance Division has quickly pivoted from budgets to audits and is working closely with our
    new third-party auditor, Badawi and Associates, to complete the fiscal year 2022/23 audit by
    December 31, 2023. Board members should have received fraud risk surveys and are asked to
    submit responses by the end of October.
•   Accounting Technician Renee Falls was recognized with a 10-year service pin this week.

    HUMAN RESOURCES
•   Office Technician closes 10/13/23
              o Testing is the week of 10/30/23
•   Operation Data Analyst closes 10/13/23
•   Fire Mechanic closes 10/31/23
•   Paramedic interviews scheduled for 10/5, 10/12 and 10/19
•   EMT interviews scheduled for October 17-19 (87 candidates scheduled)

    BACKGROUNDS
      • 1 MIH provider
      • 2 MMP 24-1 Paramedics (Deferred from 23-2)
      • 24-1 Firefighter/Paramedic
            o 12 external
            o 8 internal

    10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 7 of 10




                                                                                                        P12
SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT (Deputy Chief Tyler Wagaman)
No Report

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Vice President Matt Cole)

Matt Cole reported that at the general membership meeting today Captain Sean Scollard was
voted in as Vice President, his term will start in January 2024. Trevor Jamison will continue to
serve as President, Dustin Rodrigues as Secretary/Treasurer and Jeremy Crawford as
Member Services. On Saturday, October 14, 2023, the California Firefighters Memorial will
be taking place in Sacramento. Engineer Kyle Rutherford and Retired Captain Jeffrey Vitti's
names will be added to the wall this year. It's National Fire Prevention Week which is
observed from October 8 - October 14th .

4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
      10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mathe,; Califomia unless otherwise specified.

       A.       Executive Committee - (President Clark)
                Next Meeting: TBD
                No Report.

       B.       Communications Center JPA - (AC Greene)

                The Communications Center JPA Board met on October 10 for its Regular
                Board meeting and took the following actions:

            •   Approval of the Board-Up RFP (revision)
            •   Approval of the Resolution to Fix Healthcare Contributions

                The Communications Center JPA Board will meet next on October 24,
                2023 for its regularly scheduled meeting at SMFD's Boardroom.

       C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
                Next Meeting: October 26, 2023 at 5:00 PM
                No Report.

       D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
                Next Meeting : November 9, 2023

                Met tonight with one presentation item, the Meal and Refreshment Policy, and
                referred it to the full Board for approval at a future meeting.

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Saylors congratulated the air crews for the rescue in Placer County. Director Saylors
thanked Engine 65 for bringing the Cancer Engine to Headquarters tonight.

10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                      Page 8 of 10




                                                                                                                    P13
Director Jones congratulations to us for the cohesive plan that Kyle Macdonald presented
tonight.

President Clark said he hopes and prays for our crews that they are safe. He thanked Kevin
Coleman at Station 58 for the tour of the Dozer program.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to Closed Session at 7:35 p.m. on the following matter:

1.    PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION § 54956.9 (A) -
      TWO (2) MATTERS OF WORKERS COMPENSATION COMPROMISE AND
      RELEASE:

      1. Joseph Reyes and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      Claim # SMDP - 549570 - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority -
      Tyler Sonksen of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

      2. Troy Thompson and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      Claim # SMDP - 549585 - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority -
      Tyler Sonksen of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

2.    PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION § 54956.9 (A) -
      TWO (2) MATTERS OF INDUSTRIAL DISABILITY RETIREMENT:

      1. Steven Caldwell and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      Claim# SMDQ - 550207; 40210385C46-0001; 4A2201 0AYUK - 0001 -
      Industrial Disability Retirement - Ty Bailey - Deputy Chief

      2. Colin Swarthout and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      Claim# 4A2204F22DB-0001 - Industrial Disability Retirement -
      Ty Bailey - Deputy Chief

3.    Pursuant to California Government Code 54957(a)
      Consultation with General Counsel and Cyber Security Manager

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

The board reconvened to open session at 8:28 p.m. and General Counsel Lavra reported the
Board met in Closed Session on several item: Item #1 Joseph Reyes Workers Compensation
Compromise and Release, the Board took no action; Item #2 Troy Thompson Workers
Compensation Compromise and Release and the Board unanimously voted to provide
authority to its third-party administrator to settle the Workers Compensation claim. General
Counsel Lavra also reported the Board met in Closed Session for two (2) Matters of Industrial
Disability Retirement and no action was taken, both items will be considered in open session.
Lastly, the Board met in Closed Session with the Cyber Security Manager on cyber security
issues and no action was taken.
10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 9 of 10




                                                                                                P14
To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:
https://metrofire.ca.gov/2023-10-12-board-meeting
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:32 p.m.



D'Elman Clark, President                          Ted Wood , Secretary



Marni Rittburg, CMC, Board Clerk




10.12.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                          Page 10 of
10




                                                                                       P15
                      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                      10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief


     DATE:           November 9, 2023

     TO:             Board of Directors
     SUBJECT:        Sale of Real Property - Oak Avenue, Orangevale

                                              TOPIC
     Approval requested for final disposition of surplus property located on Oak Avenue in
     Orangevale, California (APNs 213-0014-038 and 213-0014-039).
                                               BACKGROUND
     On January 12, 2023, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's (District) Board of Directors
     approved Resolution 2023-004 declaring certain real property (Property), located on Oak
     Avenue in Orangevale (APNs 213-0014-038 and 213-0014-039), as surplus property and
     authorizing the initiation of the disposition process. The District completed the Notice of
     Availability process in accordance with the Surplus Land Act procedures and subsequently
     retained a real estate broker to list the Property in the Multiple Listing Service with a listing price
     of $475,000.                                                                   •
                                                  DISCUSSION
     One offer for the property was received in August 2023, and the District began negotiations with
     the offeror on the terms of the sale. This offer was eventually cancelled by the offeror.
     Subsequently, a second offer was received from a different party in September 2023 and the
     District began negotiations on the terms of the sale. The offeror has accepted the terms of the
     District's counter offer and the offer is outlined as follows:

                Purchase Price      De osit       Loan to Value
                $410,000            $5,000        None- CASH

     Although the offer received is below the listing price, Staff believes that accepting the offer is in
     the best interest of the District in consideration of current market conditions and the unique
     characteristics of the Property.
                                              FISCAL IMPACT
     The District will receive the proceeds from the sale of the Property less the broker's commission
     (5%) and the closing costs.
                                           RECOMMENDATION
     Staff recommends that the Board adopt the Resolution to authorize the Fire Chief or his
     designee to affect the sale of the Property to the offeror.

     Suqmitted by:          .                               Approved by: ~


     '?ib~                                                   C
     Erin Castieberry                                       Jeff
     Administrative Analyst                                 Chi           pment Officer

     Attachment 1: Resolution


                                     Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                               P16
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2023-XXX

        A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                  AUTHORIZING THE SALE OF REAL PROPERTY

         WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political subdivision of
  the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant to the State constitution
  and laws; and

         WHEREAS, the District is the owner of certain real property located on Oak Avenue in
   Orangevale, California (APNs 213-0014-038 and 213-0014-039) ("Property"); and

          WHEREAS, the District adopted Resolution 2022-004 which declared the Property as
   surplus and authorized the initiation of the disposition process; and

         WHEREAS, the District completed its due diligence pursuant to the California Surplus Land
  Act; and

         WHEREAS, the District is in receipt of a viable offer for the sale of the Property and has
   determined that accepting the offer is in the best interest of the District.

         NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the Sacramento
  Metropolitan Fire District does hereby authorize the Fire Chief or his designee as its Authorized
  Agent(s) to affect the sale of the Property to the offerer.

         PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 9th day of NOVEMBER, 2023. I, MARNI
   RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT HEREBY
   CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting of the
   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

   AYES:
   NOES:
   ABSENT:
   ABSTAIN:

                                         SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                         By:--- - - -- - -- -- - -
                                          President, Board of Directors

   ATTEST:


   Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
   Clerk of the Board
                                  Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                            P17
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A, HOUSE
   Fire Chief



     DATE:           November 9, 2023

     TO:             Board of Directors

     SUBJECT:        A resolution adjusting the employer's contribution under the Public
                     Employees' Medical and Hospital Care Act

                                                 TOPIC

     Board authorization to adopt resolutions for the California Public Employees' Retirement
     System (CalPERS) to establish employer's contribution of 92% of the employee's and .
     retiree's health premium at the third highest plan in CalPERS Region 1.

                                             DISCUSSION

     At the regular board meeting on April 25, 2013 the Board of Directors adopted the
     resolution establishing the employer's contribution of 92% of the employee's and
     retiree's health premium at the District cap. Effective January 1, 2024 the third highest
     plan in CalPERS Region 1 is changing and will continue to change every plan year
     thereafter. Therefore, new resolutions establishing the employer's contribution will need
     to be adopted by the Board of Directors and forwarded to CalPERS on a yearly basis
     around open enrollment period.

     In order to fully execute the medical premiums contributions to reflect the new benefit
     cap with CalPERS, the attached resolutions must be adopted by the Board and
     forwarded to CalPERS Board of Administration.

                                          RECOMMENDATION

     Recommend the Board adopt the attached resolution.




     Submitted By:




                                                              Adam House
                                                              Fire Chief




                                 Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                                      P18
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
    1          •.         10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700


  ~.:J~
ADAM A. HOUSE
                                       RESOLUTION NO. 2023-XXX
  Fire Chief

          FIXING SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT'S VESTING
         CONTRIBUTION UNDER SECTION 22896 OF THE PUBLIC EMPLOYEES'
                      MEDICAL AND HOSPITAL CARE ACT
                            000 ALL EMPLOYEES

    WHEREAS,        (1)     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is a contracting agency under
                            Government Code Section 22920 and subject to the Public Employees' Medical
                            and Hospital Care Act (the "Act"); and

    WHEREAS,        (2)     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is a contracting agency has filed a
                            resolution with the Board of the California Public Employees' Retirement System
                            to provide a postretirement health benefits vesting requirement to employees
                            who retire for service in accordance with Government Code Section 22896; now,
                            therefore be it

    RESOLVED, (a)           That the employer contribution for each employee or annuitant shall be the
                            amount necessary to pay the full cost of his/her enrollment, including the
                            enrollment of family members, in a health benefits plan up to a maximum of:

                                     Party Rate   Contribution Per Month
                                                  UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO REGION 1
                                         1        PARTY RATE 1, OR 92% OF THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS

                                                  UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO REGION 1
                                         2        PARTY RATE 2, OR 92% OF THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS

                                                  UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO REGION 1
                                         3        PARTY RATE 3, OR 92% OF THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS

                                                  UP TO PERS GOLD MEDICARE SUPPLEMENT REGION 1 PARTY
                                         4
                                                  RATE 4
                                                  UP TO PERS GOLD MEDICARE SUPPLEMENT REGION 1 PARTY
                                         5
                                                  RATE 5
                                                  UP TO PERS GOLD MEDICARE SUPPLEMENT REGION 1 PARTY
                                         6
                                                  RATE 6
                                                  UP TO 92% OF PEACE OFFICERS RESEARCH ASSOC OF CA AND
                                         7        MEDICARE REGION 1 PARTY RATE 7, OR 92% OF THE PREMIUM,
                                                  WHICHEVER IS LESS
                                                  UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO AND
                                         8        MEDICARE PREFERRED REGION 1 PARTY RATE 8, OR 92% OF
                                                  THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS
                                                  UP TO 92% OF PEACE OFFICERS RESEARCH ASSOC OF CA AND
                                         9        MEDICARE REGION 1 PARTY RATE 9, OR 92% OF THE PREMIUM,
                                                  WHICHEVER IS LESS
                                                  UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO AND
                                         10       MEDICARE PREFERRED REGION 1 PARTY RATE 10, OR 92% OF
                                                  THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS
                                                                                                                P19
RESOLUTION NO. 2023-XXX
Page2
                                                         UP TO 92% OF PEACE OFFICERS RESEARCH ASSOC OF CA AND
                                                11       MEDICARE SUPPLEMENT REGION 1 PARTY RATE 11, OR 92% OF
                                                         THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS
                                                         UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO AND
                                                12       MEDICARE PREFERRED REGION 1 PARTY RATE 12, OR 92% OF
                                                         THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS

                               plus administrative fees and Contingency Reserve Fund assessments; and be it
                               further

RESOLVED, (b)                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District has fully complied with any and all
                                applicable provisions of Government Code Section 7507 in electing the benefits
                                set forth above; and be it further

RESOLVED, (c)                   That the participation of the employees and annuitants of Sacramento
                                Metropolitan Fire District shall be subject to determination of its status as an
                                "agency or instrumentality of the state or political subdivision of a State" that is
                                eligible to participate in a governmental plan within the meaning of Section 414(d)
                                of the Internal Revenue Code, upon publication of final Regulations pursuant to
                                such Section. If it is determined that Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                would not qualify as an agency or instrumentality of the state or political
                                subdivision of a State under such final Regulations, CalPERS may be obligated,
                                and reserves the right to terminate the health coverage of all participants of the
                                employer; and be it further

RESOLVED, (d)                   That the executive body appoint and direct, and it does hereby appoint and
                                direct, Human Resources to file with the Board a verified copy of this resolution,
                                and to perform on behalf of Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District all functions
                                required of it under the Act; and be it further

RESOLVED, (e)                   That coverage under the Act be effective on January 1, 2024.

      PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 9th day of NOVEMBER, 2023. I, MARNI
RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT HEREBY
CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting of the Sacramento
Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following.roll call vote:

AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:

                                                     SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                                     B y : - - - - - - - - - -- - -- -
                                                      President, Board of Directors

ATTEST:


Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board

CalPERS Health Resolution (Change), Revised April 2021
                                                                                                                       P20
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
    1       I         10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700

 lfi,9~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                       RESOLUTION NO. 2023-XXX

                 FIXING THE EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTION
    UNDER THE PUBLIC EMPLOYEES' MEDICAL AND HOSPITAL CARE ACT AT
          AN EQUAL AMOUNT FOR EMPLOYEES AND ANNUITANTS
                         000 ALL EMPLOYEES

   WHEREAS,     (1)     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is a contracting agency under
                        Government Code Section 22920 and subject to the Public Employees' Medical
                        and Hospital Care Act (the "Act"); and

   WHEREAS,     (2)     Government Code Section 22892(a) provides that a contracting agency subject
                        to Act shall fix the amount of the employer contribution by resolution; and

   WHEREAS,     (3)     Government Code Section 22892(b) provides that the employer contribution
                        shall be an equal amount for both employees and annuitants, but may not be less
                        than the amount prescribed by Section 22892(b) of the Act; now, therefore be it

   RESOLVED, (a)        That the employer contribution for each employee or annuitant shall be the
                        amount necessary to pay the full cost of his/her enrollment, including the
                        enrollment of family members, in a health benefits plan up to a maximum of:

                                Party Rate    Contribution Per Month
                                              UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO REGION 1
                                     1        PARTY RATE 1, OR 92% OF THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS

                                              UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO REGION 1
                                     2        PARTY RATE 2, OR 92% OF THE PREMIUM, WHICH EVER IS LESS

                                              UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO REGION 1
                                     3        PARTY RATE 3, OR 92% OF THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS

                                              UP TO PERS GOLD MEDICARE SUPPLEMENT REGION 1 PARTY
                                     4
                                              RATE4
                                              UP TO PERS GOLD MEDICARE SUPPLEMENT REGION 1 PARTY
                                     5
                                              RATE 5
                                              UP TO PERS GOLD MEDICARE SUPPLEMENT REGION 1 PARTY
                                     6
                                              RATE 6
                                             UP TO 92% OF PEACE OFFICERS RESEARCH ASSOC OF CA AND
                                     7       MEDICARE REGION 1 PARTY RATE 7, OR 92% OF THE PREMIUM,
                                             WHICHEVER IS LESS
                                             UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO AND
                                     8       MEDICARE PREFERRED REGION 1 PARTY RATE 8, OR 92% OF
                                             THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS
                                             UP TO 92% OF PEACE OFFICERS RESEARCH ASSOC OF CA AND
                                     9       MEDICARE REGION 1 PARTY RATE 9, OR 92% OF THE PREMIUM,
                                             WHICHEVER IS LESS
                                             UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO AND
                                    10       MEDICARE PREFERRED REGION 1 PARTY RATE 10, OR 92% OF
                                             THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS
                                                                                                            P21
RESOLUTION NO. 2023-XXX
Page2

                                        UP TO 92% OF PEACE OFFICERS RESEARCH ASSOC OF CA AND
                               11       MEDICARE SUPPLEMENT REGION 1 PARTY RATE 11, OR 92% OF
                                        THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS
                                        UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO AND
                               12       MEDICARE PREFERRED REGION 1 PARTY RATE 12, OR 92% OF
                                        THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS
                    plus administrative fees and Contingency Reserve Fund assessments; and be it
                    further

RESOLVED, (b)       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District has fully complied with any and
                    all applicable provisions of Government Code Section 7507 in electing the
                    benefits set forth above; and be it further

RESOLVED, (c)       That the participation of the employees and annuitants of Sacramento
                    Metropolitan Fire District shall be subject to determination of its status as an
                    "agency or instrumentality of the state or political subdivision of a State" that is
                    eligible to participate in a governmental plan within the meaning of Section 414(d)
                    of the Internal Revenue Code, upon publication of final Regulations pursuant to
                    such Section. If it is determined that Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    would not qualify as an agency or instrumentality of the state or political
                    subdivision of a State under such final Regulations, CalPERS may be obligated,
                    and reserves the right to terminate the health coverage of all participants of the
                    employer; and be it further

RESOLVED, (d)       That the executive body appoint and direct, and it does hereby appoint
                    and direct, Human Resources to file with the Board a verified copy of this
                    resolution, and to perform on behalf of Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
                    District all functions required of it under the Act; and be it further

RESOLVED, (e)        That coverage under the Act be effective on January 1, 2024.

      PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 9th day of NOVEMBER, 2023. I, MARNI
RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT HEREBY
CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting of the Sacramento
Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:

                                    SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                    By: _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                       President, Board of Directors

ATTEST:


Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board


                                                                                                           P22
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                      10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief
                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2023-XXX

                      FIXING THE EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTION
          UNDER THE PUBLIC EMPLOYEES' MEDICAL AND HOSPITAL CARE ACT
             AT AN EQUAL AMOUNT FOR EMPLOYEES AND ANNUITANTS
                         700 ALL EMPLOYEES (NON-PERS)

  WHEREAS,      (1)     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is a contracting agency under
                        Government Code Section 22920 and subject to the Public Employees' Medical
                        and Hospital Care Act (the "Act"); and

  WHEREAS,      (2)     Government Code Section 22892(a) provides that a contracting agency subject
                        to Act shall fix the amount of the employer contribution by resolution; and

  WHEREAS,      (3)     Government Code Section 22892(b) provides that the employer contribution
                        shall be an equal amount for both employees and annuitants, but may not be less
                        than the amount prescribed by Section 22892(b) of the Act; now, therefore be it

  RESOLVED, (a)         That the employer contribution for each employee or annuitant shall be the
                        amount necessary to pay the full cost of his/her enrollment, including the
                        enrollment of family members, in a health benefits plan up to a maximum of:

                                 Party Rate   Contribution Per Month
                                              UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO REGION 1
                                     1        PARTY RATE 1, OR 92% OF THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS

                                               UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO REGION 1
                                     2         PARTY RATE 2, OR 92% OF THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS

                                               UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO REGION 1
                                     3         PARTY RATE 3, OR 92% OF THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS

                                               UP TO PERS GOLD MEDICARE SUPPLEMENT REGION 1 PARTY
                                      4
                                               RATE4
                                               UP TO PERS GOLD MEDICARE SUPPLEMENT REGION 1 PARTY
                                     5
                                               RATE 5
                                               UP TO PERS GOLD MEDICARE SUPPLEMENT REGION 1 PARTY
                                      6
                                               RATE 6
                                              UP TO 92% OF PEACE OFFICERS RESEARCH ASSOC OF CA AND
                                     7        MEDICARE REGION 1 PARTY RATE 7, OR 92% OF THE PREMIUM,
                                              WHICHEVER IS LESS
                                              UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO AND
                                     8        MEDICARE PREFERRED REGION 1 PARTY RATE 8, OR 92% OF
                                              THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS
                                              UP TO 92% OF PEACE OFFICERS RESEARCH ASSOC OF CA AND
                                     9        MEDICARE REGION 1 PARTY RATE 9, OR 92% OF THE PREMIUM,
                                              WHICHEVER IS LESS
                                              UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO AND
                                     10       MEDICARE PREFERRED REGION 1 PARTY RATE 10, OR 92% OF
                                              THE PREM IUM, WHICH EVER IS LESS
                                                                                                            P23
RESOLUTION NO. 2023-XXX
Page2

                                         UP TO 92% OF PEACE OFFICERS RESEARCH ASSOC OF CA AND
                                11       MEDICARE SUPPLEMENT REGION 1 PARTY RATE 11, OR 92% OF
                                         THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS
                                         UP TO 92% OF ANTHEM BLUE CROSS SELECT HMO AND
                                12       MEDICARE PREFERRED REGION 1 PARTY RATE 12, OR 92% OF
                                         THE PREMIUM, WHICHEVER IS LESS

                     plus administrative fees and Contingency Reserve Fund assessments; and be it
                     further

RESOLVED, (b)        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District has fully complied with any and all
                     applicable provisions of Government Code Section 7507 in electing the benefits
                     set forth above; and be it further

RESOLVED, (c)        That the participation of the employees and annuitants of Sacramento
                     Metropolitan Fire District shall be subject to determination of its status as an
                     "agency or instrumentality of the state or political subdivision of a State" that is
                     eligible to participate in a governmental plan within the meaning of Section 414(d)
                     of the Internal Revenue Code, upon publication of final Regulations pursuant to
                     such Section. If it is determined that Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     would not qualify as an agency or instrumentality of the state or political
                     subdivision of a State under such final Regulations, CalPERS may be obligated,
                     and reserves the right to terminate the health coverage of all participants of the
                     employer; and be it further

RESOLVED, (d)        That the executive body appoint and direct, and it does hereby appoint and
                     direct, Human Resources to file with the Board a verified copy of this resolution,
                     and to perform on behalf of Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District all functions
                     required of it under the Act; and be it further

RESOLVED, (e)        That coverage under the Act be effective on January 1, 2024.

      PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 9th day of NOVEMBER, 2023. I, MARNI
RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT HEREBY
CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting of the Sacramento
Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:
                                     SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT

                                     By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                        President, Board of Directors

ATTEST:


Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board


                                                                                                            P24
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 85~-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief


     DATE: .       November 9, 2023

     TO:           Board of Directors

     SUBJECT:      Purchase Approval - DOT System Decontamination Bags for
                   Contaminated Turnout Gear



                                                 TOPIC

     Staff requests Board approval for the purchase of DOT System Decontamination Bags from
     Thin Red Line Decon. These bags would be issued to all members of the line in accordance
     with best practices for exposure reduction and cancer mitigation.

                                   BACKGROUND-OR-SUMMARY
     The Safety Division in collaboration with Operations and Labor is continuing its exposure •• . •
     mitigation efforts within the District. The first step was building out the Care and .
     Maintenance center, followed by the Battalion Based Cleaning Program. The next step was
     introducing the Storm Stick, a device that connects to an engine's discharge outlet and uses
     aerated water and specialized soap to decontaminate turnouts, SCBA packs, and masks
     after fires and prior to crew members entering the cab of the apparatus. We are now in. the
     process of further facilitating the clean cab concept by addressing the way in which •
     personal protective equipment (PPE) is transported back to the station and then to the
     Safety Division for further cleaning/decontamination. The culmination of these steps will
     dramatically result in less exposure to our members to carcinogens and other toxic
     substances.

                                              DISCUSSION
     The Safety Division is requesting authorization for the purchase of the decontamination •
     bags for contaminated PPE for all members of the line. These bags are designed and
     tested to effectively seal in all carcinogens, including but not limited to Polycyclic aromatic _: . •
     hydrocarbons (PAHs) and Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs). The contamination control
     bags are washable and reusable and serve as another layer in the Safety Division's
     comprehensive cancer mitigation efforts.

     The DOT System Decontamination Bags have unique design/performance specifications
     and quality requirements that are currently unavailable in comparable products. The product
     has a proprietary design that allows for encapsulations of carcinogens within the bag. Other .
     bags were purchased for review, but upon their arrival, it was discovered they did not have
     the required encapsulation properties, resulting in no further evaluation. DOT System ·.
                                                                                                               .. .
                                                                                                               •



                                   Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                              P25
Page2


        Decontamination Bags are made in Sweden and the manufacturer has confirmed that 1hin
        Red Line Decon is currently the only company in the United States that purchases and
        delivers these bags to fire departments domestically. Additionally, the vendor has provided
        the District with a scientifically backed assessment of the control bag's ability to eliminate •
        PAHNOC contamination due to the bag's design.




                                               FISCAL IMPACT

        The proposed cost for control bags for all line members is $190,000.00. This cost is
        included in the District's FY 2023/24 Final Budget.


                                            RECOMMENDATION

        Staff recommends that the Board authorize the purchase of DOT System Decontamination
        Bags from Thin Red Line Decon.




                                                            Approved by:



        Anthony Peck, Battalion Chief                       Adam Mitchell, Deputy Chief
        Safety and Emergency Planning                       Operations

        ATTACHMENTS:

        Attachment 1: Request for Exception to Formal Solicitation Process
        Attachment 2: Sole Source Letter




                                      Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                           '-P26
                           Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                           HEADQUARTERS: 10545 Armstrong Ave. , Mather, CA, 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702
                           Website: www.metrofire.ca.gov
                           PURCHASING: 3012 Gold Canal Dr. , Rancho Cordova, CA, 95670 , Phone (916)859-4360 , Fax (916) 859-3729
        ADAM A. HOUSE
           Fire Chief

                         REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS
                                                 and
                                        DISCLOSURE STATEMENT

Purchase Description:
                                Contamination excapsilation Bags


Proposed Vendor:            Thin Red Line Decon


Estimated Total Cost: $ 190,000.00

This form must accompany the vendor quote document whenever an exception to the form al solicitation
process is requested. State and local laws subject the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District to com petitive
bidding rules. Requests for goods and/or services from a specific vendor or that are limited to a specific
brand, where substitutes to the recommended vendor or brand are not in the best interest of the
District, must be accompanied by a written justification explaining t he circumstances that make alternatives
unacceptable. The employee signing the justification must disclose in writing whether or not they have a
potential or actual conflict of interest. Metro Fire employees who have a business relationship with or
financial or personal interest in the recommended vendor must disclose the conflict of interest. Any
employee with an actual or potential conflict of interest may not participate _in the purchase decision.

The Purchasing Agent and branch Deputy Chief will determine whether the justification is ap propriate.
Requests for exceptions to the formal solicitation process must be supported by factual statements that will
pass an audit and must be submitted to the Board of Directors for final review and approval.

1. Please check all applicable categories below and provide additional information where indicated.

 D a. The requested product is an integral repair part or accessory compatible with existing equipment.
                  Existing Equipment:

                  Manufacturer/Model Number:

                  Age:

                  Current Estimated Value:

 [Z] b. The requested product has unique design/performance specifications or quality requirements that
           are not avail able in comparable products.

           I have standardized the requested prod uct, and the use of another brand/model would require
           considerable time and funding to evaluate.




                                                                                                                                    P27
                              REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT

 D d. The requested product is one in which I (and/or my staff) have specialized training and/or extensive
                 expertise. Retraining would incur substantial cost in time and/or funding.

 D e. The requested product is used or demonstration equipment available at a lower-than-new cost.
 D f. Repair/Maintenance service is available only from the manufacturer or designated service
                 representative.

 D g. Upgrade to or enhancement of existing software is available only from the manufacturer.
 D h. Service proposed by vendor is unique, therefore, competitive bids are not available or applicable.
 l ✓ I i.        Other factors

2. Provide a detailed explanation and pertinent documentation for each category checked in Section 1 above.
     Attach additional sheets if necessary:
     See attached documentation




3. Was an evaluation of other equipment, products, or services performed?                             D Yes         [Z] No
     If ves, please provide all supporting documentation.

4.   List below the name of each individual who was involved in the evaluation, if conducted, and/or in making
     the recommendation to procure this product or service. Attach additional information if necessary. Each
     individual must submit a completed and signed Disclosure Statement (attached).
            1.
                 Robert Sestito                                          2. Brian Spence

            3.                                                          4.

I certify that the above information is accurate to the best of my knowledge, and a signed copy of this
document will be kept on file and available for audit in my department.
                                          t D;g!ally s!gned by Robert
                       Robert Sestito\~::~.1
                                            ~023092ao1 44•22
                                  , / -07'00'   • •   • •                          Safety Specialist
                                     Signature                                       Budget Officer Title

                       Robert Sestito                                                09-28-2023
                                   Printed Name                                             Date

                                                                        Approval




                   Branch Deputy Chief Signature                                    Printed Name            Date P a g e 2 I 3



Rev 9/ 23
                                                                                                                                 P28
                                 REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT



                                               DISCLOSURE STATEMENT TO ACCOMPANY
                                       REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS


When submitting a request for an exception to the formal solicitation process, each individual involved in
evaluating and/or in making a recommendation to purchase the proposed good/service must complete, sign,
and submit this Disclosure Statement. Filing an annual statement of economic interest does not exempt
an employee from this requirement. Attach additional information if necessary.

Purchase Description: Encapsulation Bag

Proposed Vendor:              Thin Red Line Decon

   1.   Please list any income or gifts you received from this vendor during the past 12 months:
        N/A
   2. Please list any financial interests (stocks, shares, investments, etc.) you have in this vendor:

        N/A
   3. Do you have any other type of business or personal relationship with this vendor?
        N/A
   4. To the best of your knowledge, does any member of your departmental staff have a business or
      personal relationship with this vendor?
        N/A
   5. Do you or any of your near relatives have any financial -or personal interest in this vendor? If yes,
        please describe.
        N/A
   6. Please provide any additional information you believe should be disclosed at this time:
        See attached documentation


I certify that the above information is accurate to the best of my knowledge, and a signed copy of this
document will be kept on file and available for audit in my department.
        Robert S e s t i't/o\ Digit~lly slgned by R?~rt Sest)to .
                              Da\9. 2023.09.28 07.45.48 -07 00        Safety Specialist
                             Signature                                              Title

         Robert Sestito                                                        09-28-2023

                         Printed Name                                                 Date

                                                                                                   Page 313



  Rev 9/23
                                                                                                              P29
                             REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT



                                           DISCLOSURE STATEMENT TO ACCOMPANY
                                   REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS


When submitting a request for an exception to the formal solicitation process, each individual involved In
evaluating and/or in making a recommendation to purchase the proposed good/service must complete, sign,
and submit this Disclosure Statement. Filing an annual statement of economic interest does not exempt
an employee from this requirement. Attach additional Information If necessary.

Purchase Description: Encapsulation Bag

Proposed Vendor:           Thin Red Line Decon

   1.    Please list any income or gifts you received from this vendor during the past 12 months:
         NIA
   2. Please list any financial interests (stocks, shares, investments, etc.) you have in this vendor:
         NIA
   3. Do you have any other type of business or personal relationship with this vendor?
         NIA
   4. To the best of your knowledge, does any member of your departmental staff have a business or
      personal relationship with this vendor?
         NIA
    5. Do you or any of your near relatives have any financial or personal interest in this vendor? if yes,
        please describe.
         NIA
    6. Please provide any additional information you believe should be disclosed at this time:
         See attached documentation


I certify that the above Information Is accurate to the best of my knowledge, and a signed copy of this
document will be kept on file and available for audit in my department.
        Robert Sestl'to' Dalo:
                         Dlgilallyslgnod byRobortSoslilo
                               2023.09.28 07:45:48 -07'00'           Safety Specialist
                          Signature                                                  Title

         Robert Sestito                                                        09-28-2023

                       Printed Name                                                   Date

                                                                                                    Paue 3l3



  Rev 9/ 23

                                                                                                               P30
                         REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT



                                     DISCLOSURE STATEMENT TO ACCOMPANY
                             REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS


When submitting a request for an exception to the formal solicitation process, each individual involved in
evaluating and/or in making a recommendation to purchase the proposed good/service must complete, sign,
and submit this Disclosure Statement. Filing an annual statement of economic interest does not exempt
an employee from this requirement. Attach additional information if necessary.

Purchase Description: Contamination Excapsilation Bags

Proposed Vendor:       Thin Red Line Decon

   1.   Please list any income or gifts you received from this vendor during the past 12 months:
        N/A
   2. Please list any financial interests (stocks, shares, investments, etc.) you have in this vendor:
        N/A
   3. Do you have any other type of business or personal relationship with this vendor?
        N/A
   4. To the best of your knowledge, does any member of your departmental staff have a business or
        personal relationship with this vendor?
        N/A
   5. Do you or any of your near relatives have any financial or personal interest in this vendor? If yes,
      please describe.
        N/A
    6. Please provide any additional information you believe should be disclosed at this time:
        N/A

I certify that the above information is accurate to the best of my knowledge, and a signed copy of this
document will be kept on file and available for audit in my department.

                                                                     Safety Specialist
        ~             §snatu:;                                                      Title

        Brian Spence                                                           9/28/2023

                    Printed Name                                                      Date

                                                                                                   Page 313



  Rev 9/23
                                                                                                              P31
       c----.s::   '
         ~
HUM/\NICc

May 1, 2023

To whom it may concern,

We are committed to fighting the cancer pandemic among firefighters and hope
that our DOT System Decontamination Bags will be one small step in the right
direction.

DOT System is a series of fire gear decon bags and accessories designed to
encapsulate contaminated gear after a fire to minimize exposure to harmful
contaminants. The DOT System, is a "Healthy Firefighters" approved product and
a part of an overall recommended protocol to protect firefighters from
occupational cancer and other illnesses. The components are highly durable and
designed to be re-used. They can be easily cleaned in an extractor or washing
machine and hung to dry quickly, minimizing environmental impact.

"Thin Red Line Decon" is committed to providing the best decontamination
products to fire departments across North America and they are a distributor of
the DOT System bags. "Thin Red Line Decon" is currently the only company in
the United States that purchases and delivers these bags to fire departments
domestically.

Should you have any other questions, please do not hesitate to contact me.
Sincerely,


David A. Hultman
Chief Executive Officer
DOT System /Humanice AB
david@humanice.se




Humalnce AB            Tel +46 72 141 29 46   lnfo@numanlce.se

iilgstlgen 1                                  www.humanlce.se

645 42 Strangnas


                                                                                  P32
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~ ..n,
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief

       DATE:           November 9, 2023

       TO: •           Board of Directors

       SUBJECT:        Purchase Approval - Four (4) Squad Units



                                                      TOPIC

       Staff seeks Board approval for the purchase of four (4) 2024 Squad Units from Braun Northwest, Inc.

                                                    SUMMARY

       These vehicles will be used in new assignments as part of the District's Service Delivery and Capital
       Improvement Plan.

                                                   DISCUSSION

       The District intends to fulfill this purchase utilizing Houston-Galveston Area Council (HGACBuy)
       contract# AM10-23. HGACBuy, is a government agency which provides a cooperative purchasing
       program as part of its service to other government agencies. Local governments are eligible to
       become participating members of HGACBuy, and Metro Fire is a current member. Products and
       services are contracted with HGACBuy after having been subjected to a competitive solicitation
       process. The Purchasing Division has reviewed the contract and determined it is consistent with
       Metro Fire purchasing policies and procedures.

                                                 FISCAL IMPACT

       The total cost of the purchase for the four (4) 2024 Squad Units is $923,809.79. The funds for this
       purchase are included in the FY 2023/24 Final Budget.

                                              RECOMMENDATION

       Staff respectfully recommends the Board approve the purchase of these four (4) 2024 Squad Units
       from Braun Northwest, Inc. utilizing HGACBuy contract# AM10-23.


       Submitted by:




       Shea Pursell
       Fleet Manager




                                      Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                                  P33
                                                     L,...-.. ...... -
- . ......
i::,r-1         <, ._,,u ~ ( 1v vv inc.
                  Aa.      •      • .-.. •




150 North Star Drive/ PO Box 1204 / Chehalis, WA 98532 / 360.748.0195 / 800.245.6303 / fax 360.748.0256

                                                              HGAC PROPOSAL
       Octo~er 2, 2023
       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire Dish'ict
       Attn: Shea Pursell
       4425 Duclley Blvd.
       McClellan, CA 95652
       Pursell.shcn@metrnfii•c.c11.gov
       RE: Four (4} 2025 North Star 114-4 Rescue Vehicles
       Braun Northwest is pleased to offer the following proposal which is based upon HGAC Contract
       AMl0-23:
       Four (4) 2025 North Star 114-4 Rescue vehicles on 2024 Chevrnlet Silverado 3500HD 4x2 diesel chassis
       per enclosed specifications dated 09/14/23 and dmwings dated 08/15/23.
       Bns·e P1·ice HGAC CBOl .. ........................................... , .......................... $199,255.00
       Published/Unpublished options taken ........................................................ $ 16,799.o·o
       Multi-vehicle discount <$1,500.00 per>...........................; .........................<$ 1,500.00>
       Sub-total for one vebiclc.................... : ....................................................$214,554.00
       S11b-total for four vehicles...... ........................... ....................... , .... , .........$858,216.00
       HGAC Buy Discount............................................... ~ ....... .......... ,., .. ,, ....<$ 6,000.00>
       Travel for two (2) people for Pre-Build and Final Inspection of all units.............. $ 4,220.00
       Sales Tnx based upon 7.75%..............;............................................................................$ 66,373.79
       HGAC Fee ...................... ..................... ............................ ....... , ........... $ 1,000.00
       Total four (4) vehicles ................................................... ......................... $923.809.79*
                                                                  Sales tax included
       F.O.B.:             McClellan, CA
       Delivery:           Approximately 500 - 530 days based upon cunent manufacturing plan and chassis
                           arrival
       Terms:              Ninety percent (90%) payment due upon 1·eceipt of vehicle. Balance due in thirty (30)
                           days.
       The above pl'ici11g is valid 1111tll December 31'', 2023. A11y proposal, signed a11d 1•eftm1ed after this date will have a
       price i11crease associated with it, to be completed via cha11ge onler.
       Braun Northwest, Inc. is a Califomia dealer (#16055) with insurance information available upon request.
       Respectfully Submitted by:                                             We agree to accept the above proposal:
       Brnun o ·thwest, Inc.                                                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire Dishict


                                     . Sales
                                                                                 ~P~~
                                                                                Signature

        Dat~     _tDI~~- ~-                                                     S,Uci-\ t\l .e.!-e (, L
                                                                               PJ'inted Name
                                               TM
                                               CcBC/LM
                                               Enclosures: Specifications. drawings




-
EMERliEI\ICV VEHICLE§                                                                                           www.braunnw.com

                                                                                                                                          P34
                                                                             CONTRACT PRICING WORKSHEET                                                                                                                   Contract                                                                                          Date
 HGAC8uy                                                                                          For MOTOR VEHICLES Only                                                                                                  No.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AMl0-23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Prepared:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10/2/2023


This Worksheet is prepared by Contractor and given to End User. If a PO is issued, both the PO and the
     Worksheet MUST be faxed to H-GAC @ 713-993-4548. Therefore please type or print legibly.
     Buying                                                                                                                                                                                                       !Braun Northwest, Inc.
                   !Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                                                                            Conh·actor:
     Aeency:       !                                                                                                                                                                                              !
     Conlocl                                                                                                                                                                          l>rcpAred
                       Shea Pursell                                                                                                                                                      Dy:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !Tami McCallum
     Per.son:                                                                                                                                                                                                     i
        Phone:         916-859-4140                                                                                                                                                    Phone:                         (800) 245-6303, ext. 1014
         Jlax:     i                                                                                                                                                                        Fox:                      (360)748-0256
                   i
        Email:     !Pursell.shea@metrofire.ca.gov                                                                                                                                      Email:                         tamimccallum@braunnorthwest.com
     Product    i AM23CB01
IAi:J>rodtict Jtirn'.!l:fs.e-:
      Code:        !               II                !Nol'lh Star- Fil'e Rescue - Fol'd F-550 4x4 Cl'eW Cab~ Diesel Engine -116"L x 94"W
                                                                             Dt.Scription:
                                                                                                                                 .       .....                                                                                 . ...                                                            : .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,       .' . • ·, ·. fi·      ·~
                             'lJn.il-:Pi#ll:lfo'(J:5ciqtfactofl_s :a:~◊~C :c:onti:a,ct:~,'. .?;;\: ·: .• :·-~)£. .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             199255
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .... ~~-
8;_P.µblisli~~ ~ p:ii~½\( ft'e~fi~-~~Io{y~"iP'~?~ --~~di!ioi1~1-~i~~ft(s) if'.n¢t½~~~-y' ;;}~tlµ11!·d~~on~pcle i~ d~c1Jp"fii>~!f ~ppJfoab:Ie:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ..
(Note:
 ..
       J;'u)>hs)l_ed
     . ..
                      OpJt!)ns ar~ ,opltol)S Y!'-lnc1'
               . "'-• .. . ' · · · ······ . -·
                                                        }yere,suom1tteil\l\ld
                                                   ·-- . . - · · . . . •,. - . .. .
                                                                                    prtcecl   m Contractor:s
                                                                                         ·-·· .  •• ! . . • .
                                                                                                              btd,);
                                                                                                                •• '
                                                                                                                     . • ,;-· _:•                                                                                                          ,. •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,. • : • ,• • ' .· •!·. • ••                             •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            i.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ·- .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 • •:.••1,.             • •'· • • .:• ..• •:• • .·: •                   '.l.

                                                     Description                                                                               Cost                                                                                                 Description                                                                                                           Cost


                                                                                                        .. ..                                                                                        .,  .                                                         .
                                                     r-                :      I
                                                                                                  ,•' '"                                       ::I                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          i;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .,
                                                 ·)                I          r                                               '.
                                                                                                                                           /                           I
                                                 I                            {           I
                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                 r                                .' )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ·'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        \                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      - -                       •'
                                                                   '
                                     '
                                                                                         :l•,            I       I                     I                  I            '    i                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           / I.i                      I \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      / \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                   I                                                                                                                                                          '               ., I                                                            '
                               (

                                             '                :                                          I
                                                                                                                ' '                                                                                                                                     '              p"                  '        I                       \
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ! ,I
                                                                                                                             ' I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             \
                                                                                  '
                                         1
                                             '
                                                          f                 L __.;            '                             I..                            L -
                                                                                                                                                                                                              !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l                                                                                                         ,J                            i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          i
                                             .. .. .. ~-..
                                         \;' I.Ui             p

                                                              ""
                                                                             ( f"   ,i
                                                                             ~, ._, ~-.       .
                                                                                              ,!~ ,;,\) ,.fl
                                                                                                ·• II••
                                                                                                             ,~ ' I
                                                                                                                      /s!> i) :i -~• .J) t?°:
                                                                                                                      ,,    ~~- " · "                P- ·~ ,....-,i
                                                                                                                                                     •'   :• ~- ·, 1
                                                                                                                                                                                ,· O f; ,•Y.~ ~-., ;,:-::,, /f U§ :-...,· ,,i'.: [;i
                                                                                                                                                                           .. ".~
                                                                                                                                                                            :.:.·
                                                                                                                                                                                          . . ~--
                                                                                                                                                                                       . , t:        •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 __ .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /)..']
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .__ .._"        L,       -._!• "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,                          ....,.-;           !                     i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                                                   i                                                                                                                                                                                                                      i
                                                                                                                                   i                                                                                                                                                                                                                      !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Subtotal From Additional Sheel{s):                                                                                         185]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Subtotal B: !!                                         18510
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ..                          , .:.; . , - , •. ..          . . ..            ,.            •-=-      ,. .,                            .,, .   ..
(?: ·u~pubifs.~cc(~J.)iiPii~ ~ Ifo*-1ize'~~l<i,i j ~«Kfti. ;~d~itioi;~1)l1eet(s) i( 1iec~~N'/ .. .                                                                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l·.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ' ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .          ·.·
(ijot~: ((?PE.lili~1ie1 op\iofi.S·,~e:{td1n,s -~vii_idi ~v~te:h9t~-ubnii~~d~i½d_ jiric~d,in'C,011_tf1!cjor'_s.b1il.) •.••                                                                                                                                                                                                      ..                                  .. .        .·;

                                                     Description                                                                                Cost                                                                                                    Description                                                                                       ~               Cost
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Subtotnl From Additional Sheet(s):                                                                I                        -17111

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I ,Subtotal C: !                                                  -17111
 Check: Total cost ofUnpublished Options (C) cannot exceed 25% of the total of the Base Unit                                                                                                                      I For this transaction the percentage is:                                                                                                                             -1%1
                           Price plus Published Options (A+B).                               ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .... ,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          •.                                                   ,.                  ..             ·-;,-.                 ·!
 D..T6tal C9st D~f9re, 4-·ny ,~pplicnbfo J1:11~tJn.(Oth~r:.Allli]Van·ce~ /~isc,oun"ts (A+n+q .·,-                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I                         '• ; •t ;


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I Subtotal D: !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
           Quantity Ordcl'cd:           4       11                     II
                                                                     X Subtotal of A+ B + C:                                                                                                                          I 216054 11                                                         =                                                                                    8642161
                                                                                                                                                                            ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            --·-I
 E; WGAC 91·d.~_l· Pxcccss(ng Chal'gc(~.tno)lnt Pei'9µri-~nt Policy)                      -!         ..             ,.                                                                       "                                                      !                  ; .-                                                 Subtotal E:                                              10001
 F. Trni:ie0J~sl Sifecja(I>_isi:oiin_ts"/ Ot,hei:'A.Hoiv~~ce'.s /1i'1·cii:°hfl Jnst~ll~ticin'/ .Mfsi;~i,l_~neoil_s Clin~·ges :'. .,
                                                                                                                                          . ..                                                                                                                                                                                                  -    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..   :



                            Descl'iption
                                                                            j
                                                                            i     Cost                                        Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                 !               Cost
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          i                  66373.79
                 Mutli Unit Discount <Sl,500> per                                                                                  I           -6000                                                                  Sales Tax based upon 7.75%                                                                                                          !
                 HGAC Buy Discount <Sl,500> per                                                                                    i           -6000                                                                                                              Travel                                                       !                                                     4220
                                                                                                                                   j
                                                                                                                                   !
                                                                                                                      apprux, Juu-..,..,,.,                                                 <1--..: ·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I Subtotal F: j                                             58593.791
   '.
           •'
                       '·    ,.
                            ,, , .
                                                      ~elife1-y.J].ate'.:!                                                                                ,l                          ,..                    , ·. "G._fot~l Pq,:'cha~~ Pr;i~e O,),+E* F)': -1                                                                                                             923809.791




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P35
   Code or                                                                             Offered
                                             Published Option Description
   PnrtNo.                                                                              Price

1.02.03      Simulators - 19.5" Ford F Series - delete                             $      (775.00)

1.02.03      Valve Extenders - Stainless - delete                                  $      (250.00)

1.02.05      Running Boards - F450/550 4500/5500 Crew Cab - delete                 $    ( 1,550.0.0)

1.02.07      Auto Throttle - lntermotive AFIS xeries - Ford, Dodge, GM - delete    $      (400.00)

1.02.20      Secure Idle - Ford E/F Series                                         $       250.00

1.02.33      Trailer Hitch/Plug - Class V                                          $     1,195.00

2.02         Drop Skirt 4" (on modules up to 167" in length) - delete              $      (700.00)

2.08         Roll-out Tool Board~ total of (4)                                     $     1,400.00

2.08         Extra aluminum strip - total of ( 16)                                 $     1,600.00

2.09.03      Door Latches - Eberhard, if changing from Versch - delete             $    (1,500.00)

2.10         Knock-on trim                                                         $        50.00

3.04         Pin stripe - total of (2)                                             $       400.00

3.04         l" Straight Scotchlite Stripe                                         $       200.00

3.04         5" Straight Scotchlite Stripe                                         $       500.00

3.04         Chevrons, Standard RedNellow - Entire Rear                            $     1,400.00
                                                                 I
4.01         Bumper - Standard 7" - Open Grate - delete                            $      (500.00)

4.01         Bumper - Standard 7" - Grip Strut                                     $       700.00

4.07         Fuel Fill - DefFill - F Series - delete                               $      (275.00)

4.16         License Plate - Oval Bezel LED, Whelen 0AC0EDCR I OSC0EDCR            $       125.00

6.09         Mod ifications to Switch Plate/Console - total of (2)                 $     1,200.00

6.09         Adjustable arm rests                                                  $       200.00

6.17         Brake/Tail. Turn, Backup Lights - Whelen M6 Series                    $    2,025.00

6.17         Stop/Tail, Turn and Backup Lights - Truck Lite - delete               $    (1,025.00)

6. 18        Power Install - total of (2)                                          $      350.00

6.19.01      Install customer supplied antenna - total of (3)                      $      825.00

6.21         Shoreline Power - 120 VAC GFCI Duplex Ground Outlets - total of (4)   $      800.00

6.24 •       Integrator - Battery I Egis Mobile Electric/ Programmable             $      350.00

6.30.03      Flasher - M7 series, Super LED, Single Color - total of (6)           $    2,250.00

6.30.04      Scenelights - M7 series, Super LED, M7ZC - total of (6)               $    1,650.00




                                                                                                       P36
6.30.08   Grille Light - WION LED - total of (2)                                  $   1,150.00

6.30.09   Siren - Whelen Howler, can't be used as stand alone                     $   1,250.00

6.40      Electric Door Locks - Chassis w/o OEM Key Fobs, switch behind license   $   2,750.Q0

6.46      Back up sensor (Rosco)                                                  s    515.00

6.48      Opticom - Surface Mount                                                 $   2,350.00



          Total Changes                                                           $ 18,510.00




                                                                                                 P37
   Code or                                                                                Offered
   Part No.                                  Unpublished Option Description
                                                                                           Price
1.01          Chassis; changes to make and model year.                                $ (14,667.00)

1.02          Chassis Modifications; changes to chassis.                              $     1,550.00

2.00          Modular Construction; changes to overall design.                        $     6,141.00

3.00          Coatings and Finishes; changes to actual size of lettering and paint.   $     (130.00)

6.00          Electrical; changes to electrical.                                      $      875.00

6.30          Emergency Warning Systems; changes to emergency warning systems.        $    2,811 .00

              Delivery                                                                $     1,709.00




              Total Changes                                                           $   (1,711.00)




                                                                                                       P38
                                 a,
                                 ct)
                                 a..




Fireworks
Enforcement
After Action
Review
Presented By:
Deputy Fire Marshal Amy Nygren
Fire Marshal Barbie Law
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       q-
                                                                                       a..




Sacramento County Fireworks Enforcement


Regional & County Taskforces           Metro Fire Primary Objectives
■   Fire Departments                   • Community outreach and
■   Law Enforcement                      education
    o Sacramento Sheriff's Office
    o Rancho Cordova PD
                                       ■   Emergency response
    o Citrus Heights PD                    o Fire department has statutory
    o CHP                                    responsibility to perform fire origin &
    o ATF & Cal Fire                         cause determination

• Sacramento County Code Enforcement   • Code enforcement
■   Sacramento County Parks                o Fireworks booth inspections
                                           o Public fireworks displays
■   Public Information Officers            o After the fire follow up
■   Hosts Liability Ordinance
                                                                       ,-
                                                                       <:2"
                                                                       a..




■ Sacramento County Code §4.54.425 - Unlawful for any individual to
 permit, allow, aid, or abet any discharge of illegal fireworks
 (including a public display), if such a person either knows or
 reasonably should know that an individual is discharging illegal
 fireworks on his or her residential or other private property.
■ Violation is a misdemeanor & a public nuisance:
  01st offense $1,000
 02 nd offense within one year of first violation $2,500
 o Each additional offense within one year of first violation $5,000
 o Each violation within the American River Parkway $10,000
                                     N
                                     -=::I"
                                     a..




■   Based on previous years loss
    data, messaging began earlier
    in 2023:
    o May 7-13 Arson Awareness
      Week
    o Law enforcement fireworks
      amnesty
    o Decals on 30 fire apparatus
    o Sacramento County Code
      Enforcement advisory letters
       ► 636 sent by June 30, 2023
    o Social media campaign
    o Press releases & interviews
    o Handouts
                                                                           Ct)
                                                                           q-
                                                                           a..




• Unincorporated Sacramento County: reportfireworks@saccounty.gov or
    Sheriff's Office Non-Emergency 916-874-5115
    o All emails automatically forwarded to Metro Fire CRRD

• Citrus Heights: Citrus Heights PD Non..;Emergency 916-727-5500
• Rancho Cordova: Rancho Cordova PD Non-Emergency 916-362-5115
■   Call 3-1-1 if unsure who to report to

■   919 complaints received in Metro Fire's jurisdiction in 2023
    • 52% of these complaints were received on July 04, 2023
    • 40% of all complaints submitted in 2023 DID NOT contain actionable
      information
    • 151 complaints forwarded on to the correct jurisdiction
                                                                                   q-
                                                                                   q-
                                                                                   a..




Metro Fire Incident Statistics July 01-05

                                                          Fires in Metro Fire's
Total Call Volume*
                                                          Jurisdiction
■ 2021: 1,538                                             ■ 2021: 129

■ 2022: 1,565                                             ■ 2022: 108

■ 20231,706                                               ■ 2023:160

9% Increase Over 2022                                     48.1% Increase in Fire
Statistics                                                Activity Over 2022
* Total dispatches for Metro Fire including response to   Statistics
automatic and mutual aid incidents
                                                                                                                                                                  LO
                                                                                                                                                                  q-
                                                                                                                                                                  a..




       Fires Related to Fireworks July 01-05


■ Peak fireworks related fire
                                                        Type of Firework Involved in Fire Incident
    activity was in 2021
■   Fires related to legal
    fireworks increasing year-
    over-year
    ■ 100% increase over 2021

                                 2021                                                                 _ _- - . . . - . . , 1 _ _ _- - . J
                                                                               ..,;._




                                                                      9                       13                           30                27.7%         1.9%
                                 2022
                                 2023
                                        -9 -·~--  8

                                                 12           I'     19
                                                                             -~.--- --- -
                                                                                              31
                                                                                                                     r
                                                                                                                    ii,,
                                                                                                                           -·
                                                                                                                           48
                                                                                                                                     - ·-
                                                                                                                                        ,,
                                                                                                                                             -    -   --
                                                                                                                                                 30% , 2.8%
                                                                                                                                                            -



                                   Undetermined means evidence of fireworks located in area of origin, but there was too much damage to
                                   determine if the firework was legal or illegal.
                                                                                                       c.o
                                                                                                       ._,..
                                                                                                       a..




Fireworks - The Big Picture For Metro Fire


  Year                 Total Call Volume         Calls Related to Fireworks   % of Total Call Volume




   0                            Qh. L                       0,!I                     0.09~o


         ~-~~---   '-~-----   --- - - -   -----~----~---
  2022                         108,660                      62                       0.06%

                                                                   ~~------1~-

  2023                       89,949             !1
                                                I!          92                        0.10%
                       (Jan. 01 - Oct. 31)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o::t'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       c...




~~---2                                                                            Vegetation fires are the highest proportion of fireworks incidents
 t lllllllalMR!Number   I                                                                       followed by trash and dumpster firers
 20

18 •. - ••

16

14

 12

 10 ..                                                                                                                                  [____ --n_ .. ---·· ------ -·--- ---- -.. -- ----- -
  8 ..                                                                                                                                                     !
                                                                                                                                        t-··· · - -·· j- ·- -... ·-- --- ---·•·-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~ lnodentY1ar(FD1.l)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •JI

                                                                                                                                                              .!                                                                                                                                                                     12022
' 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     02023


                            - IIWllit-:1
         I □ -D. .. .□ JI□. . .. .. . --- . --·- □ ■ ... - u . .---..□. .
                                   . - : -- - -
                                   I
                                          H
                                       .tt~ LJ: -- - - ·:rr 1
                                                            -
                                                            =-1t :1
                                                                  ·
                                                               · ·· · ·· ··         - -                                                                                                                                                                               - •- ru:i- -- --- ---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       --□ .
         lll-8uildil'€fire m- fires in structure 121 •fire in mobile home 131-Passengervehide 142 •Brush or brush-and- 143-Grass fire (grass 151 •Outside rublish, 154 •Dumpsteroroth!r 161 ·0utside storage fire 173 •Cultivated trm or 243 •firei,urks explosioo 321-EMScall, excluding 571- Co1~r assignm,n~ 91Hrtiwn complaint
      {excludes confined fires other than building used as fixed residence fire (excludes motor    grass mixture fire ground co1ww~h fittle oc trash or waste fire outside trash receptade {on residential or        nursery stockfire           {no~re)            1'1hicle accidentl'lith star~by, mo1eup
             113-118)         (fence, tent, bridge, utifity rmdudes molile oome  homes !l~       (includes duff, dead no invc/1,mentof other (excludes lire in a fire (excludes materials commercial/industrial CTndudesX-mas tree                                           injury
                                       vault, etc)                parks)                        leaves, roots, downed ground fuels, othen-lise container154)        that are not nlibish or property,not rubbish.         fanns)
                                                                                                    logs, dead logs)            142)                               ha1~ salvage value 161 or Includes recyclablesat
                                                                                                                                                                             162)                drop off point)

 [Basiclio:IMT)ll'Cod1Am~~ 21)                 .   •j
                                                                                                                                                                                                co
                                                                                                                                                                                                q-
                                                                                                                                                                                                a..




     FIREWORKS INJURIES INCREASED 66% Over 2021 & 2022
Injury by Firework Type                                                                 Injury Severity by Firework Type
9   - - - - - --                                                                        4.5   - ---
                                                                                         4
8

                                                                                        3.5
7
                                                                                         3
6
                                                                                        2.5
                                                                                                                                                            ■ Illegal
5
                                                                            ■ 2021        2
                                                                                                                                                            ■ Legal (Safe & Sane)
                                                                            a 2022
4                                                                                                                                                           c Safe & Sane & Illegal Fireworks
                                                                                        1.5
                                                                            1;:1 2023
                                                                                                                                                              Undetermined
3




                                                                                      iI - P111 I
                                                                                          1




                                                                            ....... I I 0.5




'. II~I                                 11□ 11
                                                                                                                             111
                                                                                                      ~   ~          ~             .,     -     OJ    OJ

                                                                                                             .,"'-   .,.,>   0     -      0     -"'   -
                                                                                                                             C:
                                                                                                                             :iE
                                                                                                                                   "'
                                                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                                                          C:
                                                                                                                                          -~    .,-   .,>
                                                                                                                                                      .,


                                                                                                          ""~0       "'            ~
                                                                                                                                      0         ""~
                                                                                                                                                0     "'
       Illegal   Legal (Safe & Sane) Safe & Sane & Illegal   Undetermined
                                          Fireworks                                                   2021                     2022            2023
                                                                                                                        en
                                                                                                                        q-
                                                                                                                        a..




                                                                  3 Year Property Loss Total
Annual Property Loss
                                                                  $616,405.00
250000   -                                                        250000   -




200000                                                            200000




150000                                                            150000
                                          ■ Illegal                                             ■ Illegal

                                          ■ Legal (Safe & Sane)                                 ■ Legal (Safe & Sane)

                                          □ Undetermined                                        g Undetermined
100000                                                            100000




                                      ~
 50000                                                             50000




     0                                                                 0
             2021    2022      2023                                             Total


     In 2021. 1. legal fireworks incident loss was nearly as high as a// illegal incidents combined
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     LO
                                                                                                                                                     a..




Annual Vegetation Fires Related to Fireworks


                                                             3 Year Vegetation Fires > 1 Acre
Vegetation Fires < 1 Acre
                                                             Total Loss 40 Acres
~                              -----·                        35



                                                             30

20
                                                             ~




15                                                           20
                                                    ■ 2021                                                                                 ■ 2021

                                                    ■ 2022                                                                                 ■ 2022
                                                             15
                                                    C 2023                                                                                 ti 2023
10

                                                             10


 5                                                            5



                                                                  I
               -■
                                                              0
 0                                                                    illegal   Legal (Safe & Sane) Safe & Sane & Illegal   Undetermined
     Illegal   Legal (Safe & Sane)   Undetermined                                                        Fireworks
                                    ...   l/1   gJ
              15              ~     0     0
          0   0               0     0     0     0


  6/8/2021
6/21/2021
6/23/2021
6/26/2021
6/28/2021
 6/30/2021
  7/2/2021
  7/4/2021
  7/6/2021
  7/9/2021
 7/14/2021
 5/24/2022
 6/11/2022
 6/15/2022
 6/18/2022
 6/22/2022
 6/25/2022
 6/27/2022
 6/29/2022
  7/1/2022
  7/3/2022
  7/5/2022
  7/8/2022
 7/11/2022
 7/15/2022
 7/21/2022
 7/24/2022
 7/26/2022
 7/31/2022
 8/10/2022
 8/13/2022
 9/11/2022
 10/7/2022
10/31/2022
 5/17/2023
 5/27/2023
 5/29/2023
   6/4/2023
 6/12/2023
 6/16/2023
 6/20/2023
 6/22/2023
 6/24/2023
 6/26/2023
 6/28/2023
 6/30/2023
   7/2/2023
   7/4/2023
   7/6/2023
   7/8/2023
 7/10/2023
 7/12/2023
 7/14/2023
 7/17/2023
 7/20/2023
 7/23/2023
 7/28/2023
 7/30/2023
   8/3/2023
 8/18/2023



                   I I I
                   N
                   0
                        N
                        0
                            N
                            0
                   Cl   ~   ::::!




                                                     P51
                       ....   ....        N    w   w
                                                   u,
              0   V,   0      V,          0    0

 1/18/2021
  3/4/2021
 4/13/2021
 5/13/2021
 5/31/2021
 6/11/2021
 6/14/2021
 6/25/2021
 6/28/2021
 6/30/2021
  7/4/2021
 7/10/2021
 7/12/2021
 7/15/2021
 7/25/2021
  8/8/2021
  9/9/2021
10/10/2021
11/29/2021
12/26/2021
   1/2/2022
 2/13/2022
 4/16/2022
 5/18/2022
 6/26/2022
   7/2/2022
   7/4/2022
   7/6/2022
 7/13/2022
 7/17/2022
 7/22/2022
 7/29/2022
 8/15/2022
 8/31/2022
 9/21/2022
 11/6/2022
11/23/2022
   2/7/2023
   4/1/2023
 4/25/2023
 5/21/2023
   6/3/2023
 6/26/2023
   7/1/2023
   7/3/2023
   7/5/2023
   7/9/2023
 7/12/2023
 7/15/2023
 7/23/2023
 7/29/2023
 9/12/2023



                              I I I
                              N
                              0
                                     N
                                     0
                                         N
                                         0
                                     N   N
                                         ,_.
                              C:     N




                                                        P52
                                                                                        er')
                                                                                        LO
                                                                                        a..




Community Risk Reduction Division (CRRD)
Staffing

  • Enhanced staffing July 01-04
   • July 01. 1.7:00 - 01.:00 (2 public displays)
       ■ Fire Marshal, Deputy Fire Marshal, 1 Fire Investigator, 4 Fire Inspectors (7
        personnel)
   ■   July 02 1.7:00 - 01.:00 (no public displays)
       ■ Fire Marshal, Deputy Fire Marshal, 3 Fire Investigators (5 personnel)

   ■ July 03 1.7:00 -   01.:00 (3 public displays)
       ■ Fire Marshal, Deputy Fire Marshal, 2 Supervising Fire Inspectors, 4 Fire
         Investigators, 6 Fire Inspectors (14 personnel)
   • July 04 1.5:00 - 01.:00 (2 public displays)
       • Fire Marshal, Deputy Fire Marshal, 2 Supervising Fire Inspectors, 3 Fire
         Investigators, 5 Fire Inspectors, 4 Fire Inspector Trainees (16 personnel)

All Fire Inspectors have fire origin and cause investigation training
                                        -=:I"
                                        LO
                                        a..




■ Referred 5 incidents to Code
 Enforcement
■ Assisted ATF with sting operation

• 23 fire incident responses
• July 3 confiscated 30-40 pounds
  of illegal fireworks
• July 4 confiscated estimated
  2,000 -2,500 pounds illegal
  fireworks
 ■ Required Metro Fire logistics box
   truck to transport product to EOD
 • Largest single haul in the region!
                                                                       LO
                                                                       LO
                                                                       a..




• Difficult to pinpoint source of fireworks
    •   Large crowds assembled in courts and middle of the road
    •   Boom and crackle of fireworks happens in seconds
    •   Sound carries quite some distance
    •   Catching someone in the act is not an easy task
        Night conditions not conducive to video/photography

• Widespread instances of people gathering at schools
  and community parks to launch fireworks

• Primary and secondary response routes overwhelmed
    •   Improper use of safe and sane fireworks on make-shift aerial
        platforms in roadway
    •   People launching illegal fireworks in roadway
    •   People unwilling to let personnel through

■   Personnel safety
    •   Fire Inspectors are not peace officers, and they are unarmed
    •   Large gatherings of unruly, intoxicated individuals
    •   Hurling fireworks at response vehicles and responders

■   Indifference to Authority
                                                                                 (0
                                                                                 I.!)
                                                                                 c...




• Sacramento County Code Enforcement Advisory letters in advance of
  New Years Eve, and earlier in 2024
■   Explore opportunities to pair law enforcement officer with fire inspector,
    or respond in tandem to incidents to ensure personnel safety
■   SSD expanding use of drones to support host liability ordinance
■   Advocate for legislation at the State and/or Federal level to address the
    availability of fireworks that are illegal in California
■   Sacramento County Hosts Liability - exploring enhanced fines for
    discharge of fireworks on school and community park property .
■   Stronger emphasis on appropriate use and disposal of safe and sane
    fireworks
■ Sacramento County exploring narrowing the window for fireworks sales
    ■   June 29 - July 04
P57
