                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I

                   10545 Armstrong Ave. , Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702
~[;,~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                      ADOPTED
                   ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                                 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                       SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                               Thursday, November 9, 2023
                              Held at the following locations:
                          10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                     Mather, California
                                              &
                                    Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm by President Clark. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold, Jones, Rice, Saylors, Sheetz, and Wood. Board members absent:
  Webber. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  Public comments were not received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Action: President Clark noted that item #2 is being pulled from the agenda, no action
  will be taken. Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by
  members present to adopt the consent calendar as amended:

  1.     Action Summary Minutes
         Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
         Board Meeting of October 12, 2023.
         Action: Approved the Action Summary Minutes
         This item was pulled from the agenda - no action was taken
  2.     Adopt Resolution Sale of Real Property Oak Ave
         Recommendation: Adopt Resolution reauthorizing the Fire Chief or his designee to
         affect the sale of Property to the offerer.
         Action: None.
  3.     Employer's Contribution Under the Public Employees' Medical and
         Hospital Care Act - CalPERS Resolutions
         A. Resolution - Fixing SMFD's Vesting Contribution Under Section 28962 of the Public
            Employees' Medical and Hospital Care Act -000 All Employees
       B. Resolution - Fixing the Employer Contribution at an Equal Amount for Employees and
          Annuitants Under the Public Employees' Medical and Hospital Care Act - 000 All
          Employees
       C. Resolution - Fixing the Employer Contribution at an Equal Amount for Employees and
          Annuitants Under the Public Employees' Medical and Hospital Care Act - 700 All
          Employees (Non-PERS)
       Recommendation: Adopt Resolutions establishing the health premium
       contributions to reflect the new benefit cap with CalPERS effective January 1,
       2024.
       Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-074 Fixing SMFD's Vesting Contribution
       Under Section 28962 of the Public Employees' Medical and Hospital Care Act -
       000 All Employees.

       Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-075 Fixing the Employer Contribution at an
       Equal Amount for Employees and Annuitants Under the Public Employees'
       Medical and Hospital Care Act - 000 All Employees.
       Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-076 Fixing the Employer Contribution at an
       Equal Amount for Employees and Annuitants Under the Public Employees'
       Medical and Hospital Care Act - 700 All Employees (Non-PERS).

4.     Purchase Approval -        DOT System Decontamination Bags for
       Contaminated Turnout Gear
       Recommendation: Authorize the purchase of DOT System Decontamination Bags
       from Thin Red Line Decon.
       Action: Authorized the purchase of DOT System Decontamination Bags from Thin
       Red Line Decon.

5.     Purchase Approval - Four (4) Squad Units
       Recommendation: Approve the purchase of four (4) 2024 Squad Units from Braun
       Northwest, Inc. utilizing HGAC Buy contract #AM 10-23.
       Action: Approved the purchase of four (4) 2024 Squad Units from Braun Northwest,
       Inc. utilizing HGAC Buy contract #AM10-23.

PRESENTATION ITEMS

1.     Fireworks Enforcement After Action Review
       (Fire Marshal Barbie Law)
       Recommendation: Receive presentation
       Action: Presentation received.

ACTION ITEMS

None




11.9.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 2 of 9
REPORTS

1.    PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Clark)

      No Report

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -         (Chief House)

     1. Members
        With us tonight are 24 members of Metro Fire's Community Emergency Response
        Team (CERT), including 12 new members

        Under the Operations report Battalion Chief Grant Russell assigned to manage
        Special operations will give a brief overview of what CERT does and who they are.
        This calendar year alone (Jan 1 - Nov 3), this group of dedicated individuals has
        volunteered 3,601 hours assisting Metro Fire in various activities and events. To
        name a few:
        • Airshow
        • Community Events
        • Academy Support
        • Auto-X
        • Firefighter Rehab
        • Open Houses
        • Sever Weather Deployments
      On behalf of the members of Metro Fire, thank you for your time, commitment, and
      unwavering devotion to the community. You each represent the CERT program and
      Metro Fire in an exemplary manner.

     2. Promotions (s)
        Congratulations to Parker Wilbourn, promoted to Battalion Chief in the Community
        Relations Division, effective October 30. Battalion Chief Wilbourn will be giving brief
        a report during the Administration report tonight.

     3. Reassignment(s)
        Effective October 30, 2023, Battalion Chief/Local 522 VP Matt Cole will be
        reassigned from a day position to Suppression, and Captain Sean Scollard will be
        reassigned to fill the Day Staff Local 522 position.

     4. Retirement(s)
        Congratulations to:
        Chief Pilot Montie Vanlandingham on his retirement on November 1, 2023, after 15
        years of service.

        Captain William (Brad) Reynolds on his retirement on November 1, 2023, after 20
        years of service.
11.9.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 3 of 9
       5. Meetings
           a. Several staff members attended the Rancho Cordova State of the City Address,
              where Mayor Budge gave a beautiful presentation on Rancho Cordova "20
              years a million dreams"

           b. Several staff members attended the Public Safety & Community Appreciation
              Luncheon hosted by Justice Beyond the Courtroom, in partnership with
              District Attorney Thien Ho. This year's theme, "Justice Beyond the
              Courtroom: Amplifying Victims' Voices, highlighted recent legislative
              changes, the challenges these changes create, and opportunities to shape
              new laws that protect victims' rights and public safety.

           c. Fire Station 109 Open House was on Sunday. There was a great turnout by
              members of the District and the community along with Director Wood. Those in
              attendance had the opportunity to tour the station, interact with crew members,
              and learn hands-only CPR, among other activities.

           d. On Tuesday of this week, Battalion Chief Scott Perryman and Dr. Kann made a
              joint presentation to the County Board of Supervisors to provide an update on
              activities and accomplishments regarding Ambulance Patient Offload Time and
              Metro Fire's Mobile Integrated Healthcare program. This has initiated further
              meetings to seek possible funding and collaboration.

           e. Earlier today, we celebrated Retired Captain Bob Bruce. Bob passed away on
              October 7, and leaves behind his wife, Denise, and son, Hunter. Captain Bruce
              had a positive impact on everyone he came into contact with, both within Metro
              Fire and the broader community. He was a truly exceptional individual, known
              for his kindness and unwavering commitment to helping others.

       6. Miscellaneous
          It is with a heavy heart that we remember and honor the life of (Ret.) Logistics
          Technician Gary Lascelles. Gary was a Metro Fire staple and passed away in
          comfort on October 30. His dedication and unwavering commitment to our district
          and the fire service exemplified our core values and mission, and his memory will
          forever be cherished.

          A memorial service has been scheduled for November 15, at 11 :00 a.m. at
          Sacramento Memorial Lawn, 6100 Stockton Blvd, Sacramento 95824.

          Metro Fire will have an apparatus present as a static display, and many members will
          be in attendance.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
1. Air Operations Update

   •    I'm happy to report the plan developed by our Air Operations members to address all
        recommendations from the outside agency review has been approved. Work is moving
11.9.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 4 of 9
       forward. Although there is not yet an ETA for our return to service, we are on the
       pathway to a successful outcome.

2. CERT Presentation

   •   I'm proud to now introduce BC Grant Russell, Special Operations to discuss our CERT
       program and for you to meet our CERT members in attendance tonight. BC Russell
       introduced CERT Coordinator Captain Shani Cornell. Ms. Cornell spoke on the CERT
       program and introduced the CERT members. On behalf of the members of Metro Fire,
       thank you for your time, commitment, and unwavering devotion to the community. You
       each represent the CERT program and Metro Fire in an exemplary manner.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (PIO Parker Wilbourn for Deputy Chief Bailey)

COMMUNITY RELATIONS DIVISION
  • Community Relations would like to thank the Executive Staff, Operations, CERT,
    Logistics, and everyone else that played a part in the successful Open House at Firehouse
    109 last weekend. It was well received by the community, even on a cloudy Sunday.

   •   Community Relations assisted in coordinating today's memorial service for Ret. Capt. Bob
       Bruce, and we're working on Ret. Logistics Tech Gary Lascelles memorial which is
       scheduled for 11/15 at 11 :00am at Sacramento Memorial Lawn .

   •   We're continuing to trickle out community education in regards to pre-hospital care and
       getting patients "The right care, at the right place at the right time." This has been an
       ongoing campaign with our local health care systems for over a year now. CBS 13 aired a
       segment last night, and we've done multiple recently on the solutions we're providing as
       an agency to combat overcrowding in our emergency rooms.

   •   Next week is Crash Responder Safety Week, reminding drivers to slow down and move
       over near traffic incidents and work zones to prevent serious injuries and deaths on
       California's roadway as a Statewide Call to Action. Chief House will be speaking alongside
       the heads of CalTrans, California Office of Traffic Safety, California Highway Patrol,
       National Highway Transportation Safety Administration, and California Tow Truck
       Association at a Press Conference on Monday, 11/13 at 10:00am at the Traffic
       Management Center in Rancho Cordova.

   •   Metro Fire ran a public-education campaign competition during Fire Prevention Week in
       efforts to encourage students in the community to practice safety skills. Students were
       asked to send in photos of themselves with their designs, while practicing these skills for a
       chance to win a ride to school in one of our engines. We had 2 winners; both will be driven
       to Dudley Elementary school on E26 on 11/17 at 9:00am. We will have media there for the
       event.

   •   We're coordinating with Sac Fire and Cal OES for a safe cooking demonstration on 11/21
       ahead of Thanksgiving and the holidays.

11 .9.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 5 of 9
   •   On 12/14, we will hold our Legacy Wall of Honor event for Ret. Fire Chief Kurt Henke and
       Ret. Firefighter Jeff Wells. They both received the leadership Legacy Recognition award.
       We will have a wall unveiling, short speeches, and an open house style event. More info to
       come ...

SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT (Deputy Chief Tyler Wagaman)
Tonight, I will keep my support report brief as we have experienced several unexpected
absences within the support services branch, primarily due to pre scheduled vacations and
unscheduled illnesses. Nevertheless, on behalf of the Support Services branch, I want to
assure you that exceptional work is still being carried out throughout the district to support the
vital services we provide to our community each and every day.

On the facilities front, I am pleased to announce that the roofing projects at Station 114, 29,
and our leased property at 2101 Hurley are progressing well and are nearing completion.

Turning our attention to the communications division , while they took a short break from
installing equipment on new apparatus, they have redirected their focus towards mobile
repairs and preventive maintenance on various forms of communication equipment. Among
these, our portable and mobile radios, despite being state-of-the-art, they require frequent
reprogramming to ensure seamless communication interoperability and accurate frequency
calibration . Our dedicated communicate team manages and maintenance hundreds of these
radios throughout the district, ensuring they are in optimal working condition and perform in
the most challenging conditions.

Lastly, I would like to highlight the exceptional work being done at our dispatch center.
Recently, I had the opportunity to stand in for Assistant Chief Greene at the last SRFECC
board meeting. While the agenda may have been light, the continual work taking place at the
dispatch center has been anything but. This is a testament to the strong leadership and the
highly capable forward-thinking staff we have. This forward thinking continues bring to light
the use of new technologies, and I strongly believe that the center must continue down this
path in order to effectively handle the ever-increasing call volume we face. Like Delphini, the
smart response technology voice to text transcription software that Assistant Chief Greene
spoke to during him previous report out. Kudos Chief Executive Director Freeman and his
staff for these advancements.

This concludes my report for tonight. I am now open to any questions you may have.

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Sean Scollard for Vice President Matt
   Cole)
Sean Scollard thanked the members for their outpouring of support of Gary Lascellas over
the last two weeks. Also, the support today at the Memorial Service today for Retired
Captain Bob Bruce. Thank you to the CERT team for your hard work and volunteer hours.




11 .9.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 6 of 9
4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
      10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

      A.      Executive Committee - (President Clark)
              Next Meeting: TBD
               No Report

      B.      Communications Center JPA - (AC Greene)

      Last Meeting: October 24, 2023
      Attendance:
      • Assistant Chief Wilson - Folsom Fire
      • Assistant Chief Williams - Sac City Fire
      • Deputy Chief Bair - CSD Fire
      • Deputy Chief Wagaman - Metro Fire (Covering for AC Greene)
      Consent Agenda:
      • Meeting Synopsis for August 26 and September 24
      • Side letter between Local 150 and SRFECC addressing lunch breaks for
        Administrative Supervisors
      • Administrative Benefit Resolution
      Unanimous approval

      Action Items:
      • None
      Other: Operational Report
      • Delphini by Smart Response Technologies is a voice to text transcription tool that
         will be used on our two primary command channels. The intent is to reduce the
         number of misheard or repeated radio transmissions by providing a near real time
         transcription of radio traffic to the dispatcher. Delphini also has keyword alert
         capabilities that we will be exploring to increase safety of field units and citizens we
         protect.
      Next Meeting:
      November 14, 2023 at 0900 Hours
      Metro Fire Board Chambers

       C.      Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
               Next Meeting: October 26, 2023 at 5:00 PM
               None

      D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
               Next Meeting: November 9, 2023
               Met tonight and reviewed new Board Policy - Standards of Cover and moved
               the Policy forward to the Board for approval at a future meeting.
11.9.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                       Page 7 of 9
BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Wood expressed gratitude to the Crew over at Station 109 for the Open House and
all the CERT members. Director Wood expressed gratitude to Chris Allen at Station 109 for
his phenomenal representation of Metro Fire at the Open House.

Director Goold thank you for the reports this evening. Would like to see Chief Law's
presentation on the website. Would like to see us apply for a Grant for our CERT members.

Director Rice thanked Chief House for his leadership and every member of Metro Fire that
attended the California Firefighter Memorial. Beautiful tribute to Bob Bruce today and his son
confirmed what we all knew that he was a wonderful man. Yvonne de la Pena with California
Firefighter JAC notified Bob's family that the Cal-JAC Education Building will be named after
Captain Bob Bruce. Congratulations to the CERT members for your dedication. Reading
assignment: City of Los Angeles Fire Department Historical Archive website and read the
Battalion Chief After Action Report from the of the Northridge Earthquake, also, on the same
website look up The Proud Bird Fire and read the "A Full Measure of Devotion: Above and
Beyond the Call of Duty". They are both worth a read.

President Clark thanked everyone for the presentations and the CERT members, you are
fantastic.

A moment of silence was held for Retired Captain Bob Bruce and (Ret.) Logistics Technician
Gary Lascelles.

CLOSED SESSION:

The Board recessed to Closed Session at 7:35 p.m. on the following matter:

1.    CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - EXISTING LITIGATION -
      Pursuant to California Government Code Section§ 54956.9(d)(1): Six Cases

      A. Case No. 34-2020-00286706-CU-BC-GDS
         Medic Ambulance Service, Inc. v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

       B. Case No. 34-2021-00293046
          White v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

       C. Case No. 34-2023-00337894
          Harrison v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

       D. Case No. 34-2022-00315218
          Saechao v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

       E. Case No. 34-2021-00297477
          Samaan v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District


11 .9.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 8 of 9
         F. Case No. 34-2022-00318898
            Hanna v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

2.       CONFERENCE WITH LABOR NEGOTIATOR
         Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6

        A.     District Negotiator:       Deputy Chief Bailey
               Employee Organization:     Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

         B.    District Negotiator:       Deputy Chief Bailey
               Employee Organization:     Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                          Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

         C.    District Negotiator:      Deputy Chief Bailey
               Employee Organization:    Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                         Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

         D.    District Negotiator:       Deputy Chief Bailey
               Employee Organization:     Safety Senior Management, Management
                                          and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

         E.    District Negotiator:       Deputy Chief Bailey
               Employee Organization:     Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                          and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

The Board reconvened to open session at 8:51 p.m. and Counsel Lavra reported the Board
met in closed session on two items: 1. Conference with Legal Counsel on six cases, there
was no reportable action. 2. Conference with Labor Negotiator, there was no reportable
action.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:
https://metrofire.ca.gov/2023-11-09-board-meeting
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:52 p.m.



      ~
     D~ ~ -
                                                       ( ~---1,,,,-


                                                        Ted Wood, Secretary

     n~~
     Marni Rittburg, CC, i3oardCI
11.9.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 9 of 9
