                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief

                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                           Thursday, November 9, 2023 – 6:00 PM
                                            Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                                  10545 Armstrong Avenue
D’Elman Clark
                                                Board Room – Second Floor
Board President                                       Mather, California
Division 6                                                    &
Grant Goold                                          Remotely Via Zoom
Board Vice President                            Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Division 2
                                                    Passcode: metro2101
Ted Wood                                  Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Board Secretary
Division 4                                         Passcode: 838771796 #
                        https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFlLQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Cinthia Saylors
Board Member
Division 1
                       The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Robert Webber              and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.
Board Member
Division 3

Jennifer Sheetz        The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Board Member           the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
Division 5
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
Brian Rice             Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 7
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Gay Jones              reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Board Member           reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
Division 8
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
John Costa             accommodations:
Board Member
Division 9
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2023


 CALL TO ORDER

 ROLL CALL

 PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District will be cablecast on Metro Cable
14, the local government affairs channel on Comcast, Consolidated Communications and
AT&T U-Verse cable systems. This meeting is also webcast at metro14live.saccounty.gov.
Today’s meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday, November 13, 2023 and again at 2:00
p.m. on Wednesday, November 15, 2023 on Channel 14. This meeting can also be
viewed at youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers’ comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                  Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                          6
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meetings of October 12, 2023.

2.     Adopt Resolution – Sale of Real Property – Oak Ave                                                              16
       Recommendation: Adopt Resolution reauthorizing the Fire Chief or his
       designee to affect the sale of Property to the offeror.
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2023


3.     Employer’s Contribution Under the Public Employees’ Medical and Hospital         18
       Care Act – CalPERS Resolutions
       A. Resolution – Fixing SMFD’s Vesting Contribution Under Section 28962           19
                        of the Public Employees’ Medical and Hospital Care Act -
                        000 All Employees
       B. Resolution – Fixing the Employer Contribution at an Equal Amount for          21
                        Employees and Annuitants Under the Public Employees’ Medical
                        and Hospital Care Act - 000 All Employees
       C. Resolution – Fixing the Employer Contribution at an Equal Amount for          23
                        Employees and Annuitants Under the Public Employees’ Medical
                        and Hospital Care Act - 700 All Employees (Non-PERS)
       Recommendation: Adopt Resolutions establishing the health premium
       contributions to reflect the new benefit cap with CalPERS effective January 1, 2024.

4.     Purchase Approval – DOT System Decontamination Bags for            25
       Contaminated Turnout Gear
       Recommendation: Authorize the purchase of DOT System Decontamination
       Bags from Thin Red Line Decon.

5.     Purchase Approval – Four (4) Squad Units                              33
       Recommendation: Approve the purchase of four (4) 2024 Squad Units from
       Braun Northwest, Inc. utilizing HGACBuy contract #AM10-23.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:
1.     Fireworks Enforcement After Action Review                                                                      39
       (Fire Marshal Barbie Law)
       Recommendation: Receive presentation.

ACTION ITEMS:
None

REPORTS:
1.     PRESIDENT’S REPORT — (President Clark)

2.     FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT — (Chief House)
             OPERATIONS REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
             ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT – (Deputy Chief Bailey)
             SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT – (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

3.     SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice
       President)
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                              THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2023


4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
      Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

      A.    Executive Committee – (President Clark)
            Next Meeting: TBD

      B.    Communications Center JPA – (AC Greene)
            Next Meeting: November 14, 2023 at 9:00 AM

      C.    Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Wood)
            Met: October 26, 2023 at 5:00 PM

      D.     Policy Committee – (Director Costa)
             Next Meeting: December 14, 2023

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matters:

1.    CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL – EXISTING LITIGATION –
      Pursuant to California Government Code Section § 54956.9(d)(1): Six Cases

      A. Case No. 34-2020-00286706-CU-BC-GDS
         Medic Ambulance Service, Inc. v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

      B. Case No. 34-2021-00293046
         White v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

      C. Case No. 34-2023-00337894
         Harrison v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

      D. Case No. 34-2022-00315218
         Saechao v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

      E. Case No. 34-2021-00297477
         Samaan v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

      F. Case No. 34-2022-00318898
         Hanna v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                      THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2023


2.         CONFERENCE WITH LABOR NEGOTIATOR
           Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6
           A. District Negotiator:   Deputy Chief Bailey
              Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

           B. District Negotiator:   Deputy Chief Bailey
              Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                     Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

           C. District Negotiator:   Deputy Chief Bailey
              Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                     Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

           D. District Negotiator:   Deputy Chief Bailey
              Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                     and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

           E. District Negotiator:   Deputy Chief Bailey
              Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                     and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •     Regular Board Meeting – December 14, 2023 at 6:00 PM


Posted on November 2, 2023 by 4:30 p.m.


_____________________________________
Marni Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
**       Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
