                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                      10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


 DAN HAVERTY
Interim Fire Chief       ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                                      BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                            SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                       Thursday, May 25, 2023
                                   Held at the following locations:
                               10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                          Mather, California
                                                   &
                                         Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER
  The meeting was called to order at 6:06 pm by President Clark. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Jones, Saylors, Sheetz, Webber and Wood. Board members absent: Goold and
  Rice. Staff present: Interim Chief Haverty, Interim Board Clerk Martucci and Board Clerk
  Marni Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS -

  Public Comment Was Not Received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Action: Moved by Jones, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by members present to adopt
  the consent calendar as follows:


  1.       Action Summary Minutes
           Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board meeting of
           May 11 , 2023.
           Action: Approved the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.       Appoint Delegate and Alternate to the Sacramento Regional Fire/EMS Communications
           Center Joint Powers Authority
           Recommendation: Appoint Assistant Chief Greene as the new primary delegate and
           Deputy Chief Tyler Wagaman as the alternate delegate for the SRFECC Joint Powers
           Authority effective June 1, 2023.
           Action : Appointed primary and alternate delegates to SRFECC JPA effective June 1,
           2023.
  ACTION ITEMS

  1.       Service Delivery Proposals - Changing Distribution of FDMs and MMPs
           (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
           Recommendation: Adopt the attached Budget Amendment Resolutions
           Action: Moved by Sheetz, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by roll call vote of
           members present to adopt staff's recommendation.
2.     Disclosure of Material Expenditure - General/Property/Liability Insurance - Fire
       Agencies Insurance Risk Authority (Brad Svennungsen, US/ Insurance Broker)
       Recommendation: Authorize payment in the amount not to exceed
       $2,264,952.00 to Fire Agencies Insurance Risk Authority
       Action: Moved by Sheetz, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by roll call vote of
       members present to authorize payment in the amount not to exceed $2,264,952.00 to Fire
       Agencies Insurance Risk Authority.


3.     FY2022 State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSGP) Award
       Recommendation: Adopt the Grant Acceptance Resolution.
       Action: Moved by Wood, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by roll call vote of
       members present to adopt Grant Acceptance Resolution 2023-029.


4.     Equipment Lease Financing Contract for FY 2022/23
       (CFO O'Too/e)
       Recommendation: Adopt Resolution to authorize the Fire Chief and/or Chief Financial
       Officer to enter into an Equipment Lease with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
       Action: Moved by Webber, seconded by Saylors, and carried unanimously by roll call vote of
       members present to authorize the Fire Chief and/or Chief Financial Officer to enter into an
       Equipment Lease with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and adopt Resolution 2023-030.


REPORTS

1.     PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Clark)
       No Report

2.     FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Interim Chief Haverty)

Interim Chief Haverty thanked all who attended the celebration of life for Director Matt Kelly.

     1. New Hire
         a. Please join me in welcoming:
                 i. Ryan Ono and Jared Hodel, hired as Fire Inspector Is effective May 15;

                   ii. Marni Rittburg, hired as the District's Board Clerk effective May 22; and

                   iii. Jeffrey Comer, hired as a Fire Mechanic effective May 22

     1. Recruitment

           a. HR is accepting letters of interest:
                  i. From the rank of Captain/Paramedic for EMS Day Captain and EMS Shift
                     Captain assignments. Final filing for both positions is by 4 PM on June 2.

                   ii. From our non-probationary Firefighter/Paramedics and Paramedics for the
                       position of Metro Medic Program 23-1 Drill Instructor. The Drill Instructor
                       position will be assisting Drill Master Fader with the upcoming 23-1 MMP
5.25.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                Page 2 of 6
                        Academy Class. The Academy will start at the beginning of August and run 5
                        weeks in total.

            b. Congratulations to Battalion Chief Tony Peck for being selected to fill the Emergency
               Planning/Safety Day Battalion Chief assignment effective June 5. Battalion Chief Ross
               Carollo has been reassigned to his Suppression position effective June 4, 2023. The
               District would like to thank Battalion Chief Carollo for his dedication and commitment
               while working in Emergency Planning/Safety Division.

      2. Miscellaneous

            a. We have already been focusing on items from your Special Meeting: Strategic Plan
               Workshop/Update, and tonight's presentations were a part of that body of work.

            b. We held two sessions this month for Reframing Organizations in which The Political
               Frame was presented and discussed.

            c. Metro Fire staff and assigned Board of Directors met with Sacramento County, as well
               as City of Citrus Heights elected officials and staff to discuss topics of mutual interest.
               Meetings will continue throughout the year on a quarterly basis.

            d. Fire Academy Class 23-1
               Congratulations to the 12 recruits who graduated the fire academy on May 18, and
               thank you to the many members who had a part in their journey thus far.
               END

OPERATIONS REPORT (Deputy Chief Adam Mitchell)

On    behalf    of    DC    Adam      Mitchell,    AC     Greene     provided     the    Operations     Report.

Recruit Academy 23-1 Graduated last Friday night with 12 Probationary Firefighters starting on the
line this week. One of the B-Shift Firefighters had their first "fire" within an hour of the start of their first
shift. It is always great to see support of the Director's at the graduation ceremony, which is refreshing
to all to celebrate our newest member's commitment to the District and citizens they will be serving.

Wildland season officially started this past Monday with a full grass fire response for suppression
units. Due to the wet winter and delayed curing/drying of local grass crops, we have staggered start
dates for Air Operations and Dozer Operations. Air Operations will go into service for the season
starting this Memorial Day weekend and our Dozer Operations will go into service on June 1.

This week Metro Fire hosted a 3-day Auto-X class that is taught by approximately 10 of our members.
This class has several of our members attending as students, joining Firefighters from all over
Northern California. This is a grassroots class started several years ago by our members, and can be
best described as auto extrication on steroids, teaching and evaluating complicated rescue
techniques in challenging scenarios. Our PIO has great pictures on Metro Fire's social media which
best represents the excellent curriculum presented.




5.25.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                      Page 3 of 6
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT (Deputy Chief Ty Bailey)

On behalf of DC Bailey, Firefighter Tim White provided the Administrative Report. He spoke of the
role of networking and representing the District in his recruiting role.

SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT (Deputy Chief Tyler Wagaman)

DC Wagaman gave a brief virtual report on the kitchen construction project at Fire Stations 101 and
105. Fire Station 50 Dorm Remodel Request for Proposals process is completed and the award
should be on the next Board Meeting agenda.


3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Vice President Matt Cole)

BC Cole thanked those who attended the Celebration of Life for Matt Kelly. He also thanked the Board
Members that attended the Academy Graduation 23-1 . We appreciate the support from the Board on
Service Delivery Proposals.

4.     COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
       All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
       10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, Califomia unless othe1wise specified.

       A.      Executive Committee - (President Clark)
               Next Meeting: TBD

               No Report

       B.      Communications Center JPA - (D.C. Wagaman)
               Report Out: May 23, 2023 at 9:00 AM
               Next Meeting: June 13, 2023 at 9:00 AM

               DC Wagaman reported during their last meeting on May 23, 2023 both action items
               were approved and one of the items was an amendment to the Chief's contract.

      C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
               Report Out: May 25, 2023 at 5:00 PM
               Next Meeting: July 27, 2023 at 5:30 PM

               Director Wood reported they met this evening at 5 p.m. to discuss the Capital
               Improvement Plan and the FY 23/24 Preliminary Budget.

       D.      Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
               Next Meeting: TBD

               No Report




5.25.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                        Page 4 of 6
BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Costa thanked FF Tim White for his recruitment efforts.

Director Sheetz welcomed new Board Clerk Marni Rittburg and other new employees to Metro Fire.

Director Saylors expressed concerns over the staffing challenges the Investigation Unit is
experiencing.

Director Wood congratulated the 23-1 Academy Graduates.

Director Jones thanked staff for their presentations.

Director Webber stated he was impressed with the 3-day Auto-X class.

Director Clark thanked staff for the hard work and the presentations.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire YouTube channel at:
https://www.youtube .com/watch?v=FmK83lbPHIA&t=2s

The Board recessed to Closed Session at 7:52 p.m. on the following items:

CLOSED SESSION

1.      Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) -one (1) matter of Workers
        Compensation Settlement Authority.

        Steven Caldwell and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
        Claim # 4A2201 0AYUK-0001, - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
        Breanna Owen of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP
        Action: Moved by Webber, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by members present
        to give settlement authority to Metro Fire's third-party administrator.


2.      PERSONNEL MATTERS - PUBLIC EMPLOYEE EMPLOYMENT
        Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957
        Fire Chief Selection Process
        Action: The Board took no reportable action.


CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The board reconvened to open session at 8:32 p.m. and reported:

     1. The Board met in closed session to consider item one, workers compensation settlement
        authority for the claim of employee Steven Caldwell, and the Board by unanimous vote agreed
        to provide authority to its third-party administrator to effectuate a settlement of the claim.

     2. The Board met on the second closed session item, Fire Chief Selection Process, and no
        reportable action was taken.
5.25.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                            Page 5 of 6
ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:34 p.m.




                                                 Ted Wood, Secretary




5.25.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                         Page 6 of6
