                      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
    l          I

                      10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~~
 DAN HAVERTY
Interim Fire Chief

                     ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                                    BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                          SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                     Thursday, July 27, 2023
                                 Held at the following locations:
                             10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                        Mather, California
                                                      &
                                           Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:04 pm by President Clark. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold, Jones, Saylors, Sheetz, and Webber. Board members absent: Rice and
  Wood. Staff present: Interim Chief Haverty, and Board Clerk Marni Rittburg.

   PUBLIC COMMENTS

   Public comments were received .

   CONSENT ITEMS

  Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by
  members present to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

   1.       Action Summary Minutes
            Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board
            Meeting of June 22, 2023.
            Action: Approved the Action Summary Minutes

   2.       Approval of the Purchase of Microsoft Office Licenses
            Recommendation: Approve the District to procure the Microsoft Office licenses from
            Dell using the Riverside County's Master Agreement No. 8084445 - Contract ID PSA-
            0001524.
            Action: Approved the District to procure the Microsoft Office licenses from Dell using
            the Riverside County's Master Agreement No. 8084445 - Contract ID PSA-0001524.

   ACTION ITEMS

   1.       Final Reading and Adoption of Ordinance 2023-02 Accepting the Nexus Study to
            update the Fee Schedule For Operational Permits, Plan Review, New Construction
      Inspections, General Fire and Life Safety Inspections, and Other Miscellaneous
      Services.
      (Assistant Chief Law)
      Recommendation: Remove Ordinance 2015-02 and Adopt Ordinance 2023-02,
      Amending Fee Schedule for Operational Permits, Plan Review, New Construction
      Inspections, General Fire and Life Safety Inspections, and Other Miscellaneous
      Services.
      Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by
      members present to remove Ordinance 2015-02 and Adopt Ordinance 2023-02,
      Amending the Fee Schedule for Operational Permits, Plan Review, New Construction
      Inspections, General Fire and Life Safety Inspections, and Other Miscellaneous
      Services.

2.    Award Recommendation - RFP 23-02 Workers' Compensation Third-Party
      Administration and Cost Containment Services
      (Purchasing Agent Courlney Moore & HR Manager Melisa Maddux)
      Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief to enter into a contract for TPA services
      with lntercare Holdings Insurance Services, Inc.
      Action: Moved by Director Goold, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by roll
      call vote of members present to Authorize the Fire Chief to enter into a contract for
      TPA services with lntercare Holdings Insurance Services, Inc.

3.    Adopt Resolution Authorizing the Fire Chief to Approve Medical Treatment for
      Workers' Compensation Injuries
      (Interim Chief Haverly)
      Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief to approve medical treatment for
      Workers' Compensation Injuries.
      Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by
      roll call vote of members present to adopt Resolution 2023-045 Authorizing the Fire
      Chief to approve medical treatment for Workers' Compensation Injuries.

REPORTS

1.    PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Clark)

       No Report

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Interim Chief Haverty)

     1. New Hire

          a. Please join me in welcoming Gerald Demontmollin hired as an EMT in the
             Metro Medic Program (MMP) effective July 16 and Alec Grodecki as a
             Paramedic in the MMP effective July 17.

          b. Please join me in welcoming Jenna Kendrick hired as an Office Technician in
             the Logistics Division effective July 24.
7.27.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 2 of 8
       2. Miscellaneous

           a. Fire Camp: A huge thank you to the Community Relations Division, and the
              suppression personnel, Incident Command staff, and the support of all the
              Divisions in the District for their involvement in facilitating another successful
              Fire Camp.

                  •   The 4-day youth camp instills self-confidence and teamwork, teaches life
                      skills, and gives the kids a basic understanding of the firefighting
                      profession.

                  •   In attendance this year were 80 campers (ages 11-13), suppression
                      counselors and IC staff, helpers, friends and family members of all the
                      campers (approx. 200-300 people).

                  •   We've been doing this program since 1997 - 2 decades and have
                      connected with/mentored approx. 1500 kids since camp's inception.

           b. July 26: Yesterday, Chief Rodriguez led a meeting with Fire Chiefs from the
              Sacramento region elected from Cosumnes CSD, Supervisor Pat Hume and all
              of the hospital executives in a collaborative effort to discuss wall times, and to
              identify realistic strategies to reduce wall times within Sacramento County.
              Sacramento County currently has the highest wall times within California. It is
              with continued partnership efforts like this meeting and feasible joint-effort
              alternatives that we can make the necessary changes to improve patient care
              and reduce wall times.

           c. Transition briefings for BC House are still underway, as he becomes more
              informed of the District's Administrative functions, liabilities and current
              positions on various topics.

OPERATIONS REPORT (Deputy Chief Adam Mitchell)

1. STANDARD OF COVER UPDATE
   •    The draft document (Chapters 1-4) is completed and will be under technical review by
        a group of SMEs and Local 522 until August 18th. TONS OF WORK!
   •    We are on track to finalize the complete document (Chapters 1-7) by the second
        Board meeting in September (9/28) for a presentation. We will return to the Board the
        first meeting in October (10/12) for policy recommendations and adoption.
   •    The complete document will provide a look at current capabilities and response, using
        2022 data, current risk profiles down to the station level, define performance
        standards, measure how we are currently doing against the standards, and result in
        prioritized recommendations to consider as we move into the next section of the
        strategic plan (CIP and staffing plan).

7.27.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 3 of 8
   •   Output from the CIP and staffing plan will be a financial plan/timeline for the future to
       address the differences between current and needed services.

2. EMS UPDATE
   A. Provided by Chief Rudnicki.
   EMS UPDATE 7.27.23
   • Board presentation
     o     Placer County Hospital Update
     o     Training - MMP Academy Update
     o     Challenge Coin Delivery
     o     MIH Delivery




7.27.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                        Page 4 of 8
    ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT (Interim Chief Haverty for Deputy Chief Ty Bailey)

•   Fire Camp 2023: July 11-24
             o Largest community outreach program
             o 4 day - day camp
             o 80 kids
             o Ages 11-13
             o 25 Firefighters as counselors and IC staff
             o Big thank you to Director Wood and Director Clark for their continued support
                for Fire Camp by coming out Friday.
             o Big thank you to the District for supporting this event as in order to coordinate
                Fire Camp it takes help and assistance from almost all divisions (logs, fleet,
                ops, finance, facilities, dispatch, reserves and IT)
                If anyone has feedback on ways to improve Fire Camp next year and/or expand
                outreach programs in the district, email Brenda Briggs.

    FINANCE
•   The District's Procurement Office, staffed by Courtney Moore, and has been successfully
    transitioned to the Finance Division, a move made effective July 1, 2023.
•   Related to our District pension cost obligations, CalPER.S recently announced a 5.8%
    investment return last year, a sharp turnaround from the negative 6.1% return last year.                   • :,.,,
    Nevertheless. The 5.8% return was less than CalPERS' annual investment target rate of
    6.8%. CalPERS will issue the District's pension cost estimate for next fiscal year in
    September.

    HUMAN RESOURCES
•   Office Technician in Logistics Division started on 7/24/23
•   Fire Mechanic Recruitment closes 7/31/23
•   Paramedic Recruitment closes 7/31/23
•   FF recruitment closed on July 7 and we had 47 qualified applicants for 24-1

    BACKGROUNDS
•   MMP 23-2
            o 5 Paramedics in Backgrounds


•   MMP 23-2 B
              o   8 candidates scheduled for Background orientation on 7/25/23

•   Misc. in Backgrounds
              o 2 Administrative Specialists                                                   . :.   . .._:   . · · -..•
              o 1 Legislative Analyst


    SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT (Deputy Chief Tyler Wagaman)
    No Report
    7.27.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 5 of 8
3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard for Vice
   President Matt Cole)

Captain Scollard thanked Courtney Moore in Procurement and executive staff for the
collaborative approach with the Third-Party Administration (TPA) process and allowing Local
522 to have a seat at the table and to the Board for approving that action item. Also, we
wanted to thank the administrative staff and the Board for authorizing the Fire Chief to
approve medical treatment for workers' compensation injuries and taking care of our
members. Thank you to all who volunteered their time at Fire Camp and at the California
State Fair.

4.     COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
      10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, Califomia unless othe,wise specified.

       A.     Executive Committee - (President Clark)
              Next Meeting: TBD
               No Report.

       B.     Communications Center JPA - (AC Greene)

              The Communications Center JPA Board's scheduled Special Board Meeting on
              July 24, 2023 was cancelled and rescheduling is pending.

              The Communications Center JPA Board met on June 27th for its Regular Board
              meeting and took no action .

              The Communications Center JPA Board will meet on August 22, 2023 for its
              regularly scheduled meeting at SMFD's Boardroom.

       C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)

              The Finance and Audit Committee met this evening and received presentations
              from CFO Dave O'Toole. Will meet on August 24, 2023.

       D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)

              Will meet on August 10, 2023, No Report.

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Jones thanked the CERT representatives, Linda Ford, Harry Belt and Ken Sakamoto
and Boat 65 for assisting in the Great American Triathlon and the safety of all the participants
and spectators. Thank you for the Workers' Compensation items and all the hard work done
to improve that benefit.


7.27.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                       Page 6 of 8
Director Webber thanked Interim Chief Haverty for all the time and hard work he has provided
over the last several months to the District. Director Webber stated he is looking forward to
the August 10th Board meeting and welcoming Chief House. He expressed gratitude toward
the Human Resources division and all the staff that worked diligently on the Worker's
Compensation programs.

Director Sheetz thanked AC Jon Rudnicki and BC Scott Perryman for the information
provided this evening and helping the constituent with their medical emergency.

Director Goold thanked the person that took the time to call Metro Fire and thank us for our
work. Also, thank you to the 12-year-old who wrote the fantastic letter about Fire Camp that
Chief Haverty read tonight. Thank you to the community member who took time out of her
day to come tonight to thank us for doing our jobs.

President Clark said it is an honor and privilege to serve on this Board and be part of such a
great organization.

CLOSED SESSION:

The Board recessed to Closed Session at 7:12 p.m. on the following matters:

1.     PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION § 54956.9 (A) -
       ONE (1) MATTER OF WORKERS COMPENSATION SETTLEMENT AUTHORITY.

      Rick Griggs and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      Claim # 402105BGF6B-0001, - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
      Colin Connor of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP
      Action: Moved by Director Goold, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by
      members present to provide authority to its third-party administrator to effectuate a
      settlement of the claim.

2.     PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION § 54956.9 (A) -
       FOUR (4) MATTERS OF WORKERS COMPENSATION COMPROMISE AND
       RELEASE.

      1. Thomas Hutchinson and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      Claim# 4A2211 JPCTS-0001 - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority Colin
      Connor of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP
      Action: Moved by Director Goold, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by
      members present to provide authority to its third-party administrator to settle the claim.

      2. Troy Nogosek and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      Claim# SMDI - 8957A1; SMDI - 8957A2; SMDP - 549654; SMDP - 549780-
      Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
      Breanna Owen of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP
      Action: Moved by Director Costa, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by
      members present to provide authority to its third-party administrator to settle the claim.
7.27.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 7 of 8
       3. Craig Sweeney and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
       Claim# SMDO -549498; SMDP - 549661; 4A2209N355S-0001 - Workers'
       Compensation Settlement Authority
       Breanna Owen of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP
       Action: Moved by Director Goold, seconded by Saylors, and carried unanimously by
       members present to provide authority to its third-party administrator to settle the claim.

       4. Richard Turner and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
       Claim# 4A2201 0MQBHY-0001; 4A2201 0MQ9T-0001 - Workers' Compensation
       Settlement Authority
       Colin Connor of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP
       Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by
       members present to provide authority to its third-party administrator to settle the claim.

3.     PERSONNEL MATTERS - PUBLIC EMPLOYEE EMPLOYMENT
       Pursuant to California Government Code§ Sections 54957 and 54957.6
       Fire Chief Contract and Discussion
       Negotiator: John Lavra, General Counsel.

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

The board reconvened to open session at 8:52 p.m . and reported that the Board gave
settlement authority to its third-party administrator on all of the Workers Compensation items.
On item number three (3), Personnel Matters, there was no reportable action taken in closed
session.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:
https://metrofire.ca.gov/2023-07-13-board-meeting
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA


ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:54 p.m.




                                                    Ted Wood, Secretary




7.27.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 8 of 8
