Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda ***REVISED***
Tuesday, June 13, 2023 – 6:30 p.m.

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the regular meeting to order at 6:35 p.m. Other Board members
present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Alfred Brown, Harold Fong (via Zoom), Heather
Davis, Bina Lefkovitz (via Zoom), and Joanne Ahola.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendent Nick Schweizer; Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White; Executive
Directors Xanthi Soriano and Jerry Jones; and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Davis led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

The following individuals made public comments regarding employee wages: Wendy
Roberts, Sean Frame, Terryl Wheat, Carey Dickerson, and Magal Kincaid.

Nate Pelczar (via Zoom) from the Stonewall Foundation made public comments in
support of Agenda Item 10.D. Resolution No. 23-08 - Resolution Recognizing
LGBTQIA+ Pride Month.

B. Employee Organizations

Tara Degg, President of CSEA Chapter 480, provided an update on negotiations.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Motion by Trustee Davis to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of
   April 18, 2023, second by Trustee Ahola.




06.13.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        1
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

B. Motion by Trustee Brown to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of
   May 2, 2023, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion by Trustee Ahola to reorder the agenda, (move Item 10.D. Resolution No.
   23-08 - Resolution Recognizing LGBTQIA+ Pride Month after Item 6.A.
   Superintendent’s Report) and to adopt the reordered agenda, second by Trustee
   Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

5. Official Correspondence

A. No Official Correspondence

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

SCOE NEWS
In early May, SCOE’s School of Education, led by Dr. Steve Winlock, appeared before
the Committee on Accreditation with the California Commission on Teacher
Credentialing. Director Tammy Patten led the presentation and provided an overview of
the programs and services provided by our School of Education. Upon completion of the
presentation, we received a full seven years of accreditation with no stipulations. This is
the longest term possible!

SCOETA UPDATE
On June 1, an email was sent to SCOE employees to notify them that the Sacramento
County Office of Education Teachers Association (SCOETA) ratified a three-year
contract effective July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2026. Sacramento County Office of
Education (SCOE) and SCOETA successfully negotiated a wide range of Articles for the
new contract, including increases to salaries and benefits. Consistent with longstanding
practice, SCOE managers will receive the same increases to salaries and benefits.
SCOE has offered the same salary and benefit increases to members of our Classified
School Employees Association (CSEA); however, these negotiations are still in
progress. Accordingly, SCOETA members and SCOE managers will receive increases
to salary schedules as follows: 8% effective July 1, 2023; 4% effective July 1, 2024; and



06.13.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           2
2% effective July 1, 2025. In July 2023, these employees will also receive a one-time,
off-schedule payment of 3%. In addition, SCOE’s monthly healthcare contributions
toward these employees’ medical, dental, and vision benefits will be increased by $100
for employee only plans, $350 for 2-party plans, and $500 for family plans.

PREPARING STUDENTS
Promotions, graduations, and summer courses are all going well. Thank you, President
Keefer and Trustee Lefkowitz for attending the Foundations Academy graduations.
Also, thank you President Keefer and Trustees Brown, Davis, and Lefkovitz for
attending our SCOE Community Schools and Senior Extension Spring graduation.
Thanks to Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White and her amazing team of
educators, administrators, and school support staff--we celebrated the accomplishments
of more than 140 graduates. On June 6, we congratulated eight students from Leo A.
Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School during their 8th Grade Promotion Ceremony, followed by
the High School Graduation on June 7 where we celebrated six high school graduates.
Thank you, Trustees Corona-Sabeniano and Lefkovitz, and Dr. Herota for attending
these events and supporting students. Ending our season of graduations, we will
applaud our five graduates on June 21, at the El Centro Jr./Sr. High School Graduation.
Please let Wende Watson know if you would like to attend the upcoming graduation
ceremony.

HIGH SCHOOL WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
SCOE’s first-of-its-kind high school internship program called “Career Paths to Success”
led by Shanine Coats as part of Career Pipeline, began on June 5 and will continue
through June 30. Enrolled are 115 local area high school students from participating
districts (EGUSD, FCUSD, SCUSD, and SCOE) with 20 students from SCOE schools.
Students are being introduced to education, mental health and wellness industry, and
work-related topics at workshops. SCOE’s partners for this program are the Sacramento
Youth Center, Mentor California, SAFE Credit Union, and Imago. The School of
Education, School Based Mental Health and Wellness team, and Early Learning
Department are providing the career exploration portions. Students will receive a $1,000
internship stipend upon completion of 40 hours of training. The program will run again
next summer.

In the area of Career Technical Education (CTE), our three-week Game On! CTE
Summer School program began last week. Twenty-one SCOE students are enrolled.
This program is open to all SCOE rising High School students and is being hosted at
Elinor Lincoln Hickey Jr./Sr. High School Monday through Friday, June 5 through June
23. Students who participate will receive A-G credit for the course and be eligible for
more than $2,000 in industry awards. Please let Wende Watson know if you would like
to visit any of these Career Pipeline or CTE programs.

PROVIDING LEADERSHIP
Our SCOE teams continue to provide leadership throughout our region and across our
state. In May, SCOE hosted an “in-person only” kick-off meeting for the new “California
IT in Education” Capital Corridor Regional Group at the SCOE Conference Center—the



06.13.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            3
first of its kind. The group was led by Jerry Jones, Executive Director of Technology
Services; Andrew Brooks, Director of Computer Network; and other district leaders.
Over 80 technology support staff were present from our school districts and surrounding
counties. The training included a special guest from the FBI who presented on the
current Cybersecurity threats and landscape.

BUILDING PARTNERSHIPS
As we continue to build partnerships, thank you Trustee Brown; Christine Smith from
Early Learning; and Xanthi Soriano, for attending the launch of First 5’s new Stronger
Starts campaign supported by Former California Surgeon General Dr. Nadine Burke
Harris. On June 2, our School Based Mental Health and Wellness team led by Chris
Williams worked with the Sacramento Kings, who also have a partnership with
CalHOPE, and two school sites--Las Palmas Elementary and Martin Luther King, Jr.
Technology Academy--to bring greater awareness of mental health to grades K-8. Both
schools have a mental health clinician on site. Our newest cohort of Family Navigators
attended and were delighted to see the high level of student engagement.

EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Thank you President Keefer, Vice President Davis, and Trustee Corona Sabeniano for
attending Sunday’s River Cats game where we celebrated our seven county finalists for
Sacramento County Classified School Employees of the Year. Thank you to Xanthi
Soriano and her team for the event planning. It was a fun-filled afternoon at the
ballgame and the River Cats won!

UPCOMING EVENTS
On June 14 and 15, SCOE will host a virtual California Elementary Literacy Conference
from 8:30 am through 3:30 pm. Becky Sullivan and her team are leading this
conference. Nearly 2,500 people are registered for this event. Another large conference
is happening June 16 and 17, the Universal Prekindergarten (UPK) Institute led by Julie
Montali and her team. The conference theme is Early Learning: At the Heart of It All!
and it will be filled with discussions about the expansion of California’s UPK Mixed
Delivery System, that expands access universally to high-quality preschool programs for
3- and 4-year-old children and included the offering of Transitional Kindergarten for all
4-year-olds by the 2025-26 school year. With increased state investments to sustain the
program, UPK must be inclusive of all high-quality early learning and care settings to
maximize learning options for families.

On June 28, SCOE’s School of Education will hold an End-of-Year Celebration for the
Preliminary Administrative Services Credential Program at the SCOE Conference
Center. He and Dr. Winlock will be speaking at this event along with members from the
cohort who were selected to speak by their peers. This event will celebrate 72 aspiring
leaders that have worked hard to complete and obtain their Preliminary Administrative
Services Credential. Please contact Wende Watson if you plan to attend any of these
events.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda



06.13.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            4
A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda including any necessary technical edits to the
Single Plan for Student Achievement (SPSA) documents prior to submission by Trustee
Davis, second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
   White/Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White announced that 98 students will be awarded
diplomas, including 17 candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. Senior Extension, 19
candidates from Cordova Lane Senior Extension, 3 candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr.
High School, 23 candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension, and 36
candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

D. Declaration of Equipment Listed as Surplus Property and Authorization to Dispose of
Equipment Pursuant to Education Code - Jerry Jones

E. Single Plan for Student Achievement (SPSA) - Jacqueline White and Michael Kast

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Davis to approve authorization to submit grant applications/service
contracts and accept funding if awarded; and approval of contracts, positions, and other
expenditures associated with the grants as outlined in the proposed budget, second by
Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola



06.13.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         5
A. Quality Counts California Workforce Pathways Grant - Brent Malicote

B. Yolo County Re-Entry Program Service Contract - Jacqueline White

C. California Student Opportunity and Access Program (Cal-SOAP) Grant - Brent
Malicote

D. CA Student Aid Commission Capital Area Cash for College, Regional Coordinating
Organization Grant - Brent Malicote

10. New Business - Other

A. Establish July 11, 2023 as Annual Organizational Meeting - David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Ahola to establish July 11, 2023 as Annual Organizational Meeting,
second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

B. Notice of Public Hearing on 2023-2024 Proposed Budget - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer introduced the Budget Committee Chair,
Heather Davis who presented on the 2023-2024 Proposed Budget.

Public Hearing opened at 7:35 p.m.

There were no public comments.

The Public Hearing closed at 7:36 p.m.

C. Notice of Public Hearing on 2023-2024 Local Control and Accountability Plan
   (LCAP) - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White and Dr. Melissa Neuburger presented the
report on the 2023-2024 Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP).

Trustee Lefkovitz formally requested that LCAP Action 4.2 (Literacy Goal) be amended
to include the issue of ensuring that the literature is relevant and culturally aligned with
our student demographics

Public Hearing opened at 8:04 p.m.

There were no public comments.

The Public Hearing closed at 8:05 p.m.



06.13.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                                 6
D. Resolution No. 23-08 - Resolution Recognizing LGBTQIA+ Pride Month - Teresa
   Stinson

The following individuals spoke in favor of Agenda Item 10.D. Resolution No. 23-08 -
Resolution Recognizing LGBTQIA+ Pride Month: Rae Vanderwest, Sarah-Michael
Gaston, Deputy Director at Youth Forward, and Evan Minton.

Motion by Trustee Lefkovitz to approve Resolution No. 23-08 - Resolution Recognizing
LGBTQIA+ Pride Month, second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

E. Year in Review - David W. Gordon

Superintendent David W. Gordon presented the 2022-2023 Year in Review report
"Inspiring a New Generation of Educators and Learners."

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola - no report.

Trustee Brown stated that his high school classmate, Levi Watkins, was involved with
the development of the heart defibrillator. Dr. Watkins passed away in 2015. Recently,
the John Hopkins Medical School Outpatient Center was renamed in honor of Dr.
Watkins. Dr. Brown suggested Googling Dr. Watkins for those who wanted more
information.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano commented that she enjoyed the Year in Review video. She
also stated that she attended the First 5 event at the zoo and thought the event was well
organized and learned a lot about how stress impacts kids.

Trustee Davis thanked Executive Assistant Wende Watson for providing support to the
Board.

Trustee Lefkovitz stated that she attended the CTE Summer Camp at Elinor Lincoln
Hickey Jr./Sr. High School. She commented that both programs were exceptional and is
pleased that we are offering such engaging programming.

Trustee Fong thanked Superintendent Gordon for a great end of year report. He also
thanked Trustee Lefkovitz for bringing forth the LGBTQIA+ Resolution. Trustee Fong
provided a personal perspective about telework which he has been doing the last two
and a half years and appreciates the balance this provides him. He also acknowledged
and expressed appreciation of the comments provided during Public Comment.



06.13.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           7
B. Board President

President Keefer read from My Beating Heart from Dark Paths, Bright Future by KG.

C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution

A. June/July Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. June 27, 2023 and July 11, 2023

14. Adjournment

A. Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

The meeting adjourned at 8:34 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




06.13.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                      8
