Book                          Board Policies and ARRs

Section                       9000 Bylaws of the Board

Title                         Student County Board Members

Code                          9150 BB

Status                        Up for Revision

Adopted                       May 17, 2022

Last Revised                  May 17, 2022

Last Reviewed                 May 17, 2022

Prior Revised Dates           03/15/22 Policy Committee Meeting, 05/03/22 First Reading, Second Reading and
                              Adoption




The Sacramento County Board of Education (Board) believes in the importance of promoting civic
engagement and seeking out and considering youth students' ideas, viewpoints and reactions to the
educational program. As a means of engaging student voice, input, and involvement, the Board may choose to
include one or more student Board members, contingent upon finding a qualified applicant. Upon receiving
a qualified student petition under Education Code section 1000(b), the Board shall include one or more student
members.

Student Board Member Selection

When seeking to fill a student Board member position, students currently or formerly enrolled in a
SCOE school or program will be considered first.

In the event that a current or former SCOE student is not available or selected, the Board may appoint a
recent high school or college graduate who has experience that demonstrates a knowledge and
understanding of the issues faced by SCOE students, schools, or programs. The person appointed
pursuant to this paragraph shall have the same role and responsibilities as a student Board member
and shall be considered a student Board member in all respects.

The Superintendent or designee will work with SCOE schools and community partners to identify and
screen potential candidates for the student Board member role. The Superintendent will coordinate a
meeting between the recommended candidates and two or three Board members and these Board
members will recommend a final candidate for selection by the Board.

The term of the student Board member shall be one year, commencing on July 1. The Board may adjust
the term if a vacancy occurs or for other good cause.

Role and Responsibilities of Student Board Members
Student Board members shall be selected in accordance with procedures approved by the Board.

Upon being selected, student Board members shall receive an orientation on the role and
responsibilities of serving as a student Board member and shall receive mentoring during their term of
office.

        11.B. Proposed Student Board Member Bylaw                                                             1
Upon being selected and seated, student Board members shall have the right to attend all Board meetings
except closed sessions. Student Board members shall be seated with regular Board members and be
recognized at meetings as full members. They may participate in questioning presenters witnesses and
discussing issues and shall receive all materials presented to Board members except those related to closed
sessions and other confidential materials. The student Board member shall not be counted in determining
whether a quorum is in attendance at a Board meeting and shall not be considered a member of the
Board for purposes of the Brown Act.

Student Board members may cast preferential votes on all matters except those subject to closed session
discussion. A preferential vote means a formal expression of opinion that is cast before the official Board vote
and recorded in the meeting minutes. The preferential vote shall not be included in determining the vote
required to carry any measure before the Board.

The Board may adopt a resolution authorizing student members to make motions that may be acted upon by
the Board., except on matters dealing with employer-employee relations pursuant to Government Code
sections 3540, et seq.

Each student Board member may be appointed to Board subcommittees in the same manner as other Board
members. Student Board members will be made aware of the time commitment required to participate in
subcommittee meetings and work, and may decline an appointment to a subcommittee.

The policies and procedures for the selection participation of student Board members shall ensure and protect
the privacy of each student and parent/guardian involved in appellate proceedings before the Board.

The Board may appoint a student to serve as an alternate student member to fulfill all duties and have the
same rights as a student Board member if the Board determines the student member is not fulfilling their
duties. If the Board appoints an alternate student member, the Board shall suspend the prior student's
member’s rights and privileges related to service on Board.

A majority vote of all voting Board members shall be required to approve a motion to eliminate a student Board
member position. The motion shall be listed as an item on the Board's public meeting agenda before the motion
is voted upon.

Student Board members may, upon request, be reimbursed for mileage but shall not and shall receive
compensation for attendance at Board meetings as allowed by law. , except that that student Board member
may be awarded elective course credit based on the number of equivalent daily instructional minutes for
student member services provided.

A student member shall not be liable for any acts of the Board.


Legal Reference:

EDUCATION CODE
1000 County board members
1090 Compensation and mileage
35160-35160.2 Authority of governing boards




     11.B. Proposed Student Board Member Bylaw                                                              2
