Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, January 17, 2023

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the regular meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Other Board members
present: Bina Lefkovitz, Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Joanne Ahola, Alfred Brown,
Harold Fong, and Heather Davis.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendent Nick Schweizer; Assistant Superintendents Brent Malicote and
Jacqueline White; Executive Directors Michael Kast, Xanthi Soriano, and Jerry Jones;
and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Brown lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Approval of Minutes

A. Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of November 15, 2022
   by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

3. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to approve the adoption of the agenda as presented by Trustee Fong,
   second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

4. Official Correspondence



01.17.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         1
A. There was no official correspondence.

5. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

Sean Frame provided a public comment with a quote from Martin Luther King, Jr.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no requests from employee organizations.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

NEW COMMISSIONER: Natalie Mayes-Woods
Superintendent Gordon welcomed Dr. Natalie Mayes-Woods as the newly appointed
Commissioner to SCOE’s Personnel Commission. Natalie's background as an educator
covers decades of work. She most recently served as SCOE’s Executive Director for
Early Learning, having started as a Director for School Readiness in 2004 and is a
staunch advocate of inclusive instructional practices for children whose home language
is not English and for students with disabilities. She has been widely recognized with
several awards for her work in serving children and, in particular, for her work as the
Sacramento County Board of Supervisors appointed Co-chair of the Steering
Committee on the Reduction of African American Child Deaths/Black Child Legacy
Campaign. In addition to her direct educational services, Ms. Mayes-Woods has been a
project co-lead and contributing writer on numerous early learning publications and
public presentations.

Ms. Mayes-Woods shared a few comments about her new position.

EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT: Employee Giving
Many SCOE staff gave back to our students, families, and community during the 2022
holiday season. These are just a few examples. Thanks to the generosity of many
SCOE employees, Food-4-Less on Bradshaw Road, and Sprouts in Folsom, a team
from Court and Community Schools coordinated and delivered 25 meals for SCOE
families. Thank you to SCOE Directors Chris Aland, Marc Nigel, and Administrative
Assistant Sis Hendrix for making the arrangements. Staff also donated two bins full of
toys for the Sacramento Sheriff’s Toy Project. Executive Assistant Trisha Odin
organized the Toy Project. And last, but not least, our El Centro Teacher/Librarian
Jessie Storrs coordinated the “Deck the Hall Book Drive.” Fifty-seven new books were
donated to the Youth Development (YDF) Little Yellow Library collection for El Centro
students to enjoy. Jessie shared that the books are a perfect variety of middle grade,
high-interest, and high-diversity titles.




01.17.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           2
SPECIAL EDUCATION: Holiday Baskets
Each year staff nominate families of students enrolled in our SCOE Special Education
Programs to receive holiday baskets. SCOE departments sponsor these families and
spread holiday cheer through the act of giving. As always, our SCOE employees did not
hesitate to step up, and 13 families received holiday baskets. A special thank you to our
Special Education staff for ensuring that the baskets were delivered before the holiday
break, and to all SCOE employees who participated in lending their time and efforts to
supporting our students and their families.

PUBLIC RECOGNITION OF STAFF
In recognition of outstanding service, two SCOE employees were honored on
December 17 at the 11th Annual “Men of Honor” awards ceremony for their positive
contributions to youth in the Sacramento region. The winners included Dwight Harvey,
the Vice Principal at El Centro Jr./Sr. High School, and Stephen Benson, a Transition
Specialist at Elinor Lincoln Hickey Jr./Sr. High School. The “Men of Honor” awards were
sponsored by Earth Mama Healing and were held at Nathanial S. Colley, Jr./Sr. High
School. Yours, Mine, Ours, and the Sacramento Urban Learning Academy were also
sponsors. Recipients of this special recognition, both past and present, include Black
men from diverse professions, including coaches, educators, businessmen, parole
officers, and more.

COVID TEST DISTRIBUTION: Winter Break Return Mitigation
SCOE received 580,320 test kits from the California Department of Public Health
(CDPH) to distribute to all schools (public, private, and charter) in Sacramento County,
prior to the winter break, to help mitigate a COVID surge upon return. Thus far, we have
distributed about half of the test kits and are in the process of distributing the rest.

SCHOOLS: Outstanding Winter Storm and Flooding Response
Our region was hit hard by winter storms, which affected access to schools and
facilities. SCOE staff worked closely with our County partners, Districts, and Charter
schools to determine needs, identify impacts and priorities, and to help coordinate a
county and statewide emergency response. A heartfelt thank you to all of our school
leaders, their staff, facilities, maintenance, and operations crews and partner agencies
like SMUD, PG&E, and other emergency responders who sent crews through the rain,
windstorms, and flooding to keep our schools safe and keep them open. The hardest hit
days were January 9-11 when the River Delta district had to close all of its schools, and
15 schools throughout the county also closed either because of an evacuation order,
access issues, and/or power outages. By January 12, all Sacramento County schools
were open, with power, and in-session helping to keep learning moving forward and
most importantly, children safe.

RETIREMENT CELEBRATION: Don Nottoli Award
On January 7, Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota represented Superintendent
Gordon and SCOE while presenting a special award of recognition to County
Supervisor Don Nottoli who served the Fifth District tirelessly addressing a variety of
issues related to programs serving the needs of children and families that directly affect



01.17.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           3
our student’s educational paths and outcomes. Trustee Heather Davis also attended on
behalf of SCOE, and our Board of Education, to show our appreciation. Don has been a
shining example of what an outstanding citizen and resident of Sacramento County can
contribute, as a direct result of having been raised in a home that valued education and
thanks to the great teaching in the local schools he attended.

SCHOOLS: 2023 Distinguished Schools
Superintendent Gordon shared that seven elementary schools in Sacramento County
were honored in the California Department of Ed’s announcement of the 2023
Distinguished Schools Award. Five schools in the Folsom Cordova Unified School
District, one in Natomas Unified, and one in Sacramento City Unified. All will be formally
recognized at Disneyland Resort next month for their excellent work.

STUDENT EVENTS (C-SAPA)
The preliminary rounds of Mock Trial and Moot Court are scheduled to take place this
month. The final round of Mock Trial is on February 15 with the final round of Moot
Court happening on February 16. On February 4, we will hold the 2023 Academic
Decathlon at Folsom High School. Each of these events are coordinated by Craig Irish
in our C-SAPA Department. He knows some of you have volunteered in the past. If you
are interested and available to volunteer this year, please contact Wende.

STUDENT OPPORTUNITIES: River Bend
SCOE is bringing back more programs including our exceptional outdoor education
River Bend program in partnership with the American River Parkway Foundation
(ARPF). SCOE facilitates 4th–7th-grade classes on a field trip to the American River
where students can explore the 10-acre River Bend Outdoor Educational Site located
along the south bank of the American River in Rancho Cordova.

STUDENT ART CALENDARS: 2023 Calendar Now Available
Our annual Student Art Calendar featuring SCOE’s Education Programs is available.
Student Expressions 2023 is a full-color wall calendar with 12 unique pieces of art,
created by students from SCOE’s Foundations Academy and court/community school
programs throughout Sacramento County. All Board Members will be receiving a copy.

SCSBA Dinner
The Sacramento County School Boards Association Dinner Meeting is scheduled for
February 1, 2023, in the Mather Room. The guest speaker will be Matt J. Navo,
Executive Director of California Collaborative for Educational Excellence. Please mark
your calendars.

B. Recognition of the February 2023 Employees of the Month

Lanitra O’Dell, Program Analyst/Early Learning, was recognized as the February 2023
Classified Employee of the Month.




01.17.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           4
Jayme Massey, Alternative Education Teacher/Folsom Middle School, was recognized
as the February 2023 Certificated Employee of the Month.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

By approval of the consent agenda, the following items were approved:

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
   White/Michael Kast

Executive Director Michael Kast announced that 40 students will be awarded diplomas,
including 1 candidate from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School, 10 candidates from
Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. Senior Extension, 4 candidates from Cordova Lane Senior
Extension, 4 candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School, 1 candidate from Elinor
Lincoln Hickey Jr./Sr. High School, 8 candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior
Extension, and 12 candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

D. Declaration of Equipment Listed as Surplus Property and Authorization to Dispose of
   Equipment Pursuant to Education Code (Technology) - Jerry Jones

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Corona
   Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

A. No Grant Applications/Service Contracts




01.17.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         5
10. New Business - Other

A. Approval of Proposed Board Meeting Dates for 2023-2024 - David W. Gordon

Motion to approve by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

B. Audit Report for Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2022 - Nicolas Schweizer

Nicolas Schweizer, Associate Superintendent, presented the Audit Report for Fiscal
Year that ended June 30, 2022 and introduced Auditor Jesse Deol from James Marta &
Company, CPA, for further comment.

Motion to accept recommendation to accept Audit Report for Fiscal Year ended June
30, 2022 by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

C. Second Reading and Adoption of Proposed Revisions to Board Policy 5142 -
   Authorization to Administer Medication and for Parent Administration of Medicinal
   Cannabis - Teresa Stinson

The Policy Committee has recommended adoption of the proposed revisions to Board
Policy 5142 – Authorization to Administer Medication and for Parent Administration of
Medicinal Cannabis. Therefore, it does not require a first or second.

Final Resolution: Adoption of the proposed revisions to Board Policy 5142 carried.
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola


D. Second Reading and Adoption of Proposed Revisions to Board Policy 6146.1 -
   Graduation Requirements - Teresa Stinson

The Policy Committee has recommended adoption of the proposed revisions to Board
Policy 6146.1 – Graduation Requirements. Therefore, it does not require a first or
second.

Final Resolution: Adoption of the proposed revisions to Board Policy 6146.1 carried.
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola



01.17.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          6
E. Second Reading and Adoption of Proposed Revisions to Board Policy 6158 -
   Independent Study - Teresa Stinson

The Policy Committee has recommended adoption of the proposed revisions to Board
Policy 6158 – Independent Study. Therefore, it does not require a first or second.

Final Resolution: Adoption of the proposed revisions to Board Policy 6158 carried.
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

F. Second Reading and Adoption of Proposed Revisions to Board Policy 6173 -
   Homeless Education - Teresa Stinson

The Policy Committee has recommended adoption of the proposed revisions to Board
Policy 6173 – Homeless Education. Therefore, it does not require a first or second.

Final Resolution: Adoption of the proposed revisions to Board Policy 6173 carried.
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

G. Board Report - 2022 Dashboard and SCOE's System of Support - Rachel Perry

Executive Director Channa Cook presented the 2022 Dashboard and SCOE's System
of Support Report, along with Executive Director Rachel Perry and Director Amber
Jacobo.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola - no report.

Trustee Brown thanked Ms. Stinson for her work on the appeal..

Trustee Lefkovitz - no report.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano requested to adjourn the meeting in the memory of Monty
Maxwell, longtime Inderkum Football Coach in Natomas.

Trustee Davis - no report.

Trustee Fong - no report.

B. Board President

President Keefer thanked the team for their work.



01.17.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        7
C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution

A. January/February Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. February 7, 2023 and February 21, 2023

14. Adjournment

A. Motion to adjourn the meeting in memory of Monty Maxwell, longtime Inderkum
   Football Coach in Natomas by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

Meeting adjourned at 8:50 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




01.17.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                    8
