10/13/21, 4:02 PM                                                BoardDocs® Plus


    Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda at 6:30 p.m.
    Tuesday, September 28, 2021 VIA ZOOM/TELECONFERENCE CALL

    MINUTES

    1. Call to Order and Roll Call

    President Talamantes called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m. via teleconference call in Sacramento,
    California. Board members present were Joanne Ahola, Alfred Brown, Heather Davis, Harold Fong,
    Paul Keefer, Bina Lefkovitz, and Karina Talamantes. Also present were David W. Gordon,
    Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; Teresa Stinson,
    General Counsel; Nicolas Schweizer, Associate Superintendent; Jerry Jones and Michael Kast,
    Executive Directors; Shanine Coats, Director; other staff; and Wende Watson.

    Other staff present via teleconference were Brent Malicote and Jacqueline White, Assistant
    Superintendents; Coleen Johnson, Chief Administrator; Channa Cook-Harvey, Kristin Wright, and
    Rachel Perry, Executive Directors; and Tim Herrera, Director.

    2. Pledge of Allegiance

    Mr. Keefer led the Pledge of Allegiance.

    3. Approval of Minutes

    A. No Approval of Minutes

    4. Adoption of Agenda

    Mr. Brown moved to adopt the agenda. Mr. Fong seconded the motion, which carried 7 ayes, 0 noes,
    0 absent, 0 abstentions based on the following Roll Call vote:

    Ms. Lefkovitz – yes
    Mr. Keefer – yes
    Mr. Fong – yes
    Ms. Davis – yes
    Mr. Brown – yes
    Ms. Ahola – yes
    Ms. Talamantes – yes

    5. Official Correspondence

    There was no official correspondence.

    6. Visitor Presentations

    A. General Public

    Mr. Herrera read public comments from the following:

    Richard Mello

https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                         1/8
10/13/21, 4:02 PM                                                BoardDocs® Plus


    B. Employee Organizations

    There were no requests for presentations from Employee Organizations.

    7. Superintendent’s Report

    Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

    LOCAL DISTRICT UPDATES
    • Arcohe: Testing is going well. Increased number of staff getting vaccinated. Two outbreaks last
     week impacted two classrooms. Low number of students enrolled in independent study.
   • Center: COVID cases are decreasing. A lot of stress on staff and students. 80% + staff are
     vaccinated. Others are testing. They are experiencing a sub shortage.
   • Elk Grove: COVID cases are decreasing. 79 quarantined/64,000 students. They are not permitting
     indoor facility use.
   • Elverta: No changes. Some positive cases from their last report. District staff is undergoing testing.
   • Folsom Cordova: 21,000 students/53 positive cases/630 quarantined. COVID cases among
     vaccinated and unvaccinated. Testing in progress. 20 students with mask exemptions.
     Implementing new form to be required from medical provider for students with mask exemptions.
     Quarantined students are participating in independent study. The district is negotiating
     compensation for teachers.
   • Galt Elementary: COVID cases are decreasing. They have experienced no issues with mask
     wearing. 85% of Certificated and 50% of Classified are vaccinated. Testing starts October 11.
   • Galt High: Nine positive cases/85 quarantined/2,200 students. 28 students are enrolled in
     independent study. The district is increasing pay for subs. They have no mask exemptions on file.
   • Natomas: (Unavailable for this morning’s call.)
   • River Delta: 89% staff are vaccinated. The district is considering increasing sub pay. 22 students
     are enrolled in independent study, which is down from 36. They are experiencing staff
     shortages. They have five positive COVID cases – down from 11 a few weeks ago.
   • Robla: COVID cases are decreasing. 12 positive cases. The district has a new agreement for
     independent study going for ratification tomorrow with an increased pay rate. 77 students enrolled
     in independent study. They are experiencing staff shortages: Special Ed & subs. 85% staff are
     vaccinated.
   • Sacramento City: 89 positive COVID cases. 80% staff vaccinated. The board will vote regarding a
     “vaccine mandate” on October 5. The district is experiencing a shortage of staff for
     independent study.
   • San Juan: COVID cases are decreasing. The district is experiencing staff shortages.
   • Twin Rivers: COVID cases are decreasing. 88% staff vaccinated. The district is experiencing staff
     shortages.

    COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
    • Our enrollment continues to grow, and we have 18 students enrolled at Hickey and 18 enrolled at
     Colley.
    • Thanks to our CNTS team, we have an updated messaging and alert system that is integrated
     with our PA system to ensure staff and student safety.

    SENIOR EXTENSION
    • Our enrollment continues to grow. We have 339 students enrolled with 31 in our Galt program.
    • We have had such a strong response from students about our Visual Artist in Residence that we
      are adding another session with students and artist Milton Bowens.

https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                                2/8
10/13/21, 4:02 PM                                                BoardDocs® Plus


    EL CENTRO
    • SCOE continues to partner with area Community Based Organizations and Earth Mama Healing
      has started their work with our students in the hall.
    • Currently there are 34 students in the NCCT program and 18 in the Culinary Arts program.

    SPECIAL EDUCATION UPDATE
    • Classes that were combined are doing well.
    • Independent Study classes are also doing well.
    • Staffing continues to be a struggle for our paraprofessionals and substitutes. This becomes a major
      concern when staff are out for long periods of time due to quarantine protocol.
    • Staff are doing an outstanding job educating and caring for all students during this challenging
      time.

    EMPLOYEE COVID TESTNG
    • We began COVID-19 testing of unvaccinated employees working in El Centro in September, which
      was mandated by the CDPH for detention centers.
    • Testing is being conducted Wednesday afternoons at the SCOE Conference Center. A team of
      trained SCOE staff is administering the testing. It has gone very smoothly with quick results.
    • Beginning October 1, we will begin COVID-19 testing of other unvaccinated employees, per CDPH
      mandate.
    • Beginning next week, several additional testing “hubs” will roll out for our programs/school site
      located throughout the county.
    • Trained SCOE staff will be facilitating these hubs and will be using the BinaxNow rapid test.

    GRAND JURY REPORT RESPONSE
   • You are aware we were recently notified by the Sacramento County Grand Jury to respond to their
      report “Requirement for COVID-19 Vaccination for Eligible Sacramento County Public K-12 School
      Districts.”
    • The report was released on August 26 and a letter was sent to Board President Talamantes dated
      September 14.
    • We are in the process of preparing our response in consultation with Sacramento County Public
      Health and our local school district partners.

    CDE MENTAL HEALTH WEBINAR
    • On Wednesday, September 15, he participated in a webinar hosted by State Superintendent Tony
      Thurmond for local educational agencies and education partners to discuss how schools can
      support students, families, and communities by addressing and investing more in mental and
      behavioral health services.
    • He spoke of SCOE’s work to make schools Centers of Wellness in Sacramento County by placing
      mental health specialists in our schools.
    • Also talked about the CalHOPE Student Support project, which is a statewide group we are
      coordinating, made up primarily of county offices of education. The effort is focused on building
      school district capacity for social-emotional competency and crisis response.

    LEARN AT LUNCH
    • Our Learn at Lunch series is back, in virtual form. We kicked it off September 15 with a fun civics
      lesson because Constitution Day was September 17.
    • It was a fun and interactive session where attendees learned about the history of Constitution Day,
      the resources to understand the importance of the Constitution, and some fun and interesting


https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                              3/8
10/13/21, 4:02 PM                                                BoardDocs® Plus


      facts.
    • For instance, did you know that the Constitution is fairly brief? It is only 4,400 words long and
      spread out over only four pages.
    • It is also the oldest and shortest written Constitution of any major government in the world.
    • Many thanks to SCOE’s civics experts Frank Pisi and Charley Gilmore for sharing their expertise.

    8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

    Action (Consent): A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

    Ms. Davis moved, and Mr. Brown seconded adoption of the consent agenda. By such action, the
    Board:

    1. Accepted report on Personnel Transactions
    2. Awarded diplomas to Court and Community School Students

    Motion carried 7 ayes, 0 noes, 0 absent, 0 abstentions based on the following Roll Call vote:

    Ms. Lefkovitz – yes
    Mr. Keefer – yes
    Mr. Fong – yes
    Ms. Davis – yes
    Mr. Brown – yes
    Ms. Ahola – yes
    Ms. Talamantes – yes

    Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendent, announced that the following students will be awarded
    a diploma: Luis Octavio Perez and Maliyah Latrice Walton from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. Senior
    Extension; 2 candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School; Zaymon Dorsey-Thomas, Kurt Hodges,
    Rykkaya Adysha Marie Jenkins, Hailee Rae Robertson, and Omar Bassam Slekh from Elinor
    Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension; and Catherine Mary Ross from North Area Senior Extension.

    9. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

    Mr. Keefer moved, and Mr. Fong seconded approval of the contracts. Motion carried 7 ayes, 0 noes,
    0 absent, 0 abstentions based on the following Roll Call vote:

    Ms. Lefkovitz – yes
    Mr. Keefer – yes
    Mr. Fong – yes
    Ms. Davis – yes
    Mr. Brown – yes
    Ms. Ahola – yes
    Ms. Talamantes – yes

    10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts - David W.
        Gordon

    A. No Grant Applications/Service Contracts


https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                            4/8
10/13/21, 4:02 PM                                                BoardDocs® Plus


    11. New Business - Other

    Action: A. Public Hearing of Capital College & Career Academy Countywide Charter Petition

    President Talamantes announced the public hearing on the Capital College & Career Academy
    Countywide Charter School Petition. The public hearing is to provide petitioners, parents, school
    districts, and citizens with an opportunity for comment and input on the proposed countywide charter
    petition. This Board's responsibility is to hear and consider the charter petition under applicable
    provisions of the Charter Schools Act, Board Policy, and Administrative Rules and Regulations.
    Copies of Education Code section 47605.6 and Board Policy and ARR 2400 have been provided to
    Board members and are posted on the SCOE website.

    President Talamantes opened the public hearing at 6:48 p.m.

    Keven Dobson presented the Capital College & Career Academy charter petition to the Board. He
    was allotted 15 minutes to make this presentation. Student Trey Braxton, who has signed a letter of
    intent expressing his interest in attending CCCA, also presented.

    Next, Dr. Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent, General Counsel Teresa Stinson, and Nick
    Schweizer, Associate Superintendent of Business Services, presented SCOE's analysis of the
    CCCA petition and SCOE’s Recommended Findings of Fact to the Board. SCOE was allotted 15
    minutes to make this presentation.

    Tim Herrera and Shanine Coats read public comments submitted to the Board by the following:

    Carmen Luna
    Edward Primasing
    Wendy Nelson
    Timothy Blood
    Kathleen Murphy
    Ramon Hopkins
    Ian McQuoid
    Doyle Smith
    Cameron Hart
    Anette Smith
    James Fritch
    Trent Baker
    Amanda Goldman
    Sapphire Delaney
    Larry Glover-Meade
    Xavier Gomez
    Matt Kelly
    Curtis Ferreira
    Matt Michalak
    Dustin Parciasepe
    Patricia Ramirez
    Jane Einhorn
    Jane Macaulay
    Cecil Sigafoose
    Andrew Tschaplizki and Kelly Melanson

https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                             5/8
10/13/21, 4:02 PM                                                BoardDocs® Plus


    John Pellman
    Antonio Acevedo
    Dan Branton
    Matthew Kelly
    Mirza Lopez and Carlos Valez
    Alexander Hampton
    Nikolas Wells
    Pedro Cortes
    Deborah Maus
    Antonio Newson
    Anatoliy Gavrilyuk
    Rena Abduhsalam
    Richard Mello
    Neildon JnCharles
    Ralph Hamp
    Kirsten Spall
    Nicholaus Knight
    Anthony DeVita
    Dominique Gonzales
    Arion Quintana
    Deborah Wilder
    Megan Valles
    Mary Teichert
    Michele Henry
    Alejandro Becerra
    Stephanie Hannah
    Meredithe Peer
    Larry Stiver
    Dustin Phillips
    Nunila Gutierrez
    Tim Cowdrey
    Sua Xaynhalath
    Manivanh Garcia
    Phit Xaynhalath
    Joseph Garcia
    James Ford
    Jose Garcia
    Alexander Heredia
    Ben Fell
    Jonathan Schwartz
    James Hanacek, IV
    Nicole Goehring
    Brooke Higman
    Sherry Balian
    Janelle Ruley
    Scott Binnings
    Patrick Walsh
    Jason Pengel
    Jud Riggs
    Amanda Reynaud
    Jennifer Matulich
    David Murillo

https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                     6/8
10/13/21, 4:02 PM                                                BoardDocs® Plus


    MJ Kiwan
    Craig Sweeney
    Linda Farley
    Jessica Walden
    James Moore

    President Talamantes closed the public hearing at 8:31 p.m.

    The Board asked questions and deliberated.

    Ms. Lefkovitz moved, and Ms. Ahola seconded the motion to adopt the SCOE Recommended
    Findings of Fact and deny the Capital College & Career academy Countywide Charter Petition.
    Motion carried 6 ayes, 1 no (Davis), 0 absent, 0 abstentions based on the following Roll Call vote:

    Ms. Lefkovitz – yes
    Mr. Keefer – yes
    Mr. Fong – yes
    Ms. Davis – no
    Mr. Brown – yes
    Ms. Ahola – yes
    Ms. Talamantes – yes

    Mr. Dobson thanked the SCOE staff and Board Members. He stated that he will continue to
    fundraise and strengthen CCCA’s proposal.

    Information: B. Board Report - Sacramento County School Based Mental Health Update - Brent
    Malicote

    This agenda item was postponed to the October 19, 2021 Board Meeting.

    12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

    Reports: A. Board Members

    Ms. Ahola commented that she is a charter supporter and would like to see CCCA come back again
    with a revised proposal.

    Mr. Brown stated as an educator he appreciated what education can do for a child. He hopes that
    CCCA can strengthen its proposal.

    Ms. Lefkovitz wondered if SCOE should revisit the charter policies. She does not agree with the one-
    step process of a hearing and action taken in one night. She asked Ms. Stinson about our policies.

    Ms. Stinson responded that the Board’s charter policy is robust, detailed, and appropriate.

    Ms. Davis expressed that her no vote represented her opinion, and although it differs from other
    Board Members, she respects everything she heard tonight.

    Mr. Fong shared some of the same comments made by Bina. We do need to look at our charter
    school policies. He agreed that vocational training is needed. He mentioned that Santa Clara County

https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                            7/8
10/13/21, 4:02 PM                                                BoardDocs® Plus


    Office of Education and school districts have countywide charters. A program is needed for kids that
    do not want to attend college and prefer something more hands-on.

    Mr. Keefer thought the process was constructive. He also commented that the CCCA programs
    need to be equitable and feels there are access issues in the current proposal. He commended the
    Board for working hard and appreciates everyone on the Board.

    Reports: B. Board President

    President Talamantes thanked the staff for their work. There are at least 28 different apprenticeship
    programs that she is aware of. She would like to see SCOE work with these programs to increase
    workforce development. There is an Executive Committee Meeting tomorrow. The discussion will be
    regarding Board meetings and staff priorities.

    Reports: C. Committees

    There were no committee reports.

    13. Items for Distribution

    A. There was no distribution of the October/November Events.

    B. There was no distribution of the October/November Site Visits.

    14. Schedule of Future Meetings

    A. October 5, 2021

    B. October 19, 2021

    15. Adjournment

    Mr. Keefer moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Ahola seconded the motion, which carried 7 ayes, 0
    noes, 0 absent, 0 abstentions based on the following Roll Call vote:

    Ms. Lefkovitz – yes
    Mr. Keefer – yes
    Mr. Fong – yes
    Ms. Davis – yes
    Mr. Brown – yes
    Ms. Ahola – yes
    Ms. Talamantes – yes

    The meeting adjourned at 9:49 p.m.

    ‘Respectfully submitted,
     David W. Gordon
     Secretary to the Board

    Date approved:

https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                              8/8
