                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                                ADOPTED
                 ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING
                              BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                      SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                  Thursday, June 12, 2025
                              Held at the following locations:
                          10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                    Mather, California
                                                  &
                                       Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

 The meeting was called to order at 6:01 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
 Clark, Goold, Rice, Saylors, Stark, Webber and Wood. Board members absent: Costa and
 Jones. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  No public comments were received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by members
  present to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.     Action Summary Minutes
         Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
         of May 8, 2025.
         Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.
  2.     Final Reading and Adoption of Ordinance No. 2025-01, Adopting the 2025 Fire
         Hazard Severity Zone Map Ordinance
         Recommendation: Adopt Ordinance 2025-01 , thereby adopting the 2025 Fire Hazard
         Severity Zone Map as required by the State Fire Marshal.
         Action: Adopted Ordinance No. 2025-01.

  3.     Adopt Resolution - Request for Exception to the Formal Solicitation Process -
         Professional Services Contract with Concern for Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
         Services
         Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving an exception to the formal solicitation
         process and authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to negotiate, execute, and
         administer a one-year agreement materially similar to the attachment agreement with
         Concern for the provision of EAP services.
         Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-046.
4.    Adopt Resolution - County of Sacramento Hazardous Materials Response
      Teams Agreement
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the Fire Chief or his designee to
      execute and administer an agreement between the County of Sacramento and the
      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District for Hazardous Materials Response Teams.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-047.

5.    Adopt Resolution - Voluntary Rate Range Program (VRRP) with State of California
      Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) for Intergovernmental Transfers (IGT) from
      January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024.
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution reauthorizing the Fire Chief to enter into the necessary
      agreements with DHCS to participate in the VRRP IGT reimbursement period covering
      January 1, 2024 through December 31, 2024.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-048.

6.    Adopt Resolution - Temporary Construction Easement- Watt/Myrtle                        71
      Recommendation : Adopt Resolution authorizing the execution of a Temporary
      Construction Easement with Pacific Gas and Electric Company.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-049.

7.    Adopt Resolution - Surplus Equipment                                                   77
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the disposal of the I.T. Division's
      surplus equipment.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-050.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.    CRRD - 2025 Fireworks Season
      (Fire Marshal Amy Nygren)
      Recommendation: Receive the presentation.
      Action: Presentation received.

ACTION ITEMS

1.    Adopt Resolution - Capital Improvement Plan FY 25126 - 29130
      (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation and adopt Resolution adopting the Capital
      Improvement Plan FY 2025/2026 - FY 2029/2030.
      Action: Moved by Director Stark, seconded by Goold, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-033, adopting the Capital Improvement Plan
      FY 2025/2026 - FY 2029/2030.

2.    Adopt Resolutions - Revisions to Fiscal Year (FY) 2024/25 Budget
      (Chief Financial Officer Dave O'Toole)
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolutions revising the FY 2024/25 Midyear Budget.
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-034, adopting a Budget Amendment to the
      Midyear Budget For The General Fund 212A for Fiscal Year 2024/25.
      Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-035, adopting a Budget Amendment to the
      Midyear Budget for the Capital Facilities Fund 212D for Fiscal Year 2024/25.


6.12.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                 Page 2 of 7
3.     Adopt Resolutions - FY 2025/26 Preliminary Budget
       (Dave O'Too/e, Chief Financial Officer)
       Recommendation: Receive presentation and adopt the Resolutions adopting the
       Preliminary Budget for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

      A. Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the General Operating Fund 212A
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-036, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
      the General Operating Fund 212A for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      8. Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Capital Facilities Fund 212D
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-037, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
      the Capital Facilities Fund 212D for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      C. Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Pension Obligation Fund 212E
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-038, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
      the Pension Obligation Fund 212E for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      D. Resolution - 2025/26 Committed Fund Balance for the Pension Obligation Fund
          212E
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-039, Adopting the Commited Fund Balance
      for the Pension Obligation Fund 212E for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      E. Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Grants Fund 212G
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-040, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
      the Grants Fund 212G for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      F. Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Development Impact Fees Fund
         2121
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-041, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
      the Development Impact Fees Fund 2121 for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      G.    Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Leased Properties Fund 212L
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-042, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
      the Leased Properties Fund 212L for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      H. Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Measure O Debt Service Fund 212N
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-043, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
      the Measure O Debt Service Fund 212N for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      I. Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Measure O Building Fund 2120
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-044, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
      the Measure O Building Fund 2120 for Fiscal Year 2025/26.


6.12.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                              Page 3 of 7
          J. Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Special Projects Fund 212S
          Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
          members present to adopt Resolution 2025-045, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
          the Special Projects Fund 212S for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

4.        Establish an Ad Hoc Committee for Ongoing Advice for Measure 0
          Implementation and Strategic Planning.
          (Board President Ted Wood)
          Recommendation: Appoint three Board Members to an Ad Hoc Committee for ongoing
          advice for Measure O implementation and strategic planning.
          Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Goold, and carried unanimously
          by members present to appoint Director Clark, Director Rice and Director Stark to
          an Ad Hoc Committee for ongoing advice for Measure O implementation and
          strategic planning.

REPORTS

1.       PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

          No Report

2.       FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -       (Chief House)

Good evening, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public

Rancho Cordova Leadership Program

     •    Battalion Chief Ryan Pittman and Payroll Specialist Emily Brown are graduating
          tonight from the Leadership Rancho Cordova program, hosted by the Rancho Cordova
          Chamber of Commerce.
     •    This year-long program develops leadership skills, expands local government and
          community knowledge, and fosters regional collaboration.
     •    We're proud of their commitment to professional growth and their role in representing
          Metro Fire in the broader Rancho Cordova community.

Academy

I spent a few hours today with our Fire Academy and Fire Behavior Cadre. Thank you to the
entire team for your outstanding work in developing the next generation of Metro Fire
firefighters-and thank you to the recruits for their hard work, commitment, and focus.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Out-of-Class Assistant Chief Daly)

AC Mike Johnson introduced Captain Tony Ramos who was newly promoted to Captain.
Captain Ramos spoke about his experiences at Metro Fire.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

COMMUNITY RELATIONS DIVISION
Fire Camp starts on June 17, 2025. We are excited to welcome 20 counselors and 80
campers next week to Fire Camp, where youth will practice teamwork, learn life-saving skills,
and experience what it's like to be a firefighter! We're also proud to partner with Capital City

6.12.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 4 of7
CPR, SMUD, and FFBI this year at Fire Camp. Together, we foster a shared investment in
the success and safety of our communities. We look forward to the meaningful experiences
and memories our campers will make!

     •   Day 1 - FFBI will lead an interactive home escape demonstration
     •   Day 2 - Capital City CPR will oversee Hands-only CPR with biofeedback manikins and
         introduce campers to AEDs, and SMUD's education team will come in to present on
         Electrical Safety.

Food Sponsors: Raising Cane's, Chicago Fire Pizza
Program Sponsors: SMUD, CA American Water, Kiwanis Club of Citrus Heights, and our
incredible individual sponsors
In-kind sponsors: Sun Splash, Capital City CPR, Roseville Fire Department, Firefighters
Burn Institute

SUPPORT SERVICES - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

No Report

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (BC Matt Cole, Local 522)
     BC Matt Cole expressed concerns over brownouts and that the MMP transitions have
     stopped. Crews have too many mandatories and I'm concerned what the summer will be
     like. We need to collaborate to come up with a creative solution.

4.       COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
         All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
         10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.


         A.      Executive Committee - (President Wood)

                  No Report

         B.      Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
                 The Communication Center JPA Board last met on June 10, 2025. During that
                 meeting the Board approved the Fiscal Year 25/26 preliminary budget for the
                 comm center. There was no other significant action taken.

         C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
                  No Report

         D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)

                 The Policy Committee met tonight on two Board policies: 1. Purchasing and
                 Contracting Policy. 2. Debt Management Policy. Both policies will come to the
                 full Board at the next Board meeting.

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Webber stated that he is hearing rumors that Chief House is on his way out. That is
the furthest thing from the truth. We support the Chief. Also, we would like to look at the
Chief's contract regarding administrative leave, which he currently does not receive.
6.12.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                          Page 5 of 7
CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 7:32 p.m. on the following matter(s):

1.    Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) -one (1) matter
      of Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
          Steven Johnson and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          Claim# SMDP-549755; 4A230162R3W0001; 4A2306N87J40001
          Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
          Tyler Sonksen, Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP
      Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Goold, and carried unanimously by members
      present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a settlement of the
      Workers' Compensation matter.

2.    CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - PENDING LITIGATION -
      PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9(d)(1)

         Ty Bailey v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         EAMS No. ADJ 18553924 and ADJ 20643634

3.    CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL -ANTICIPATED LITIGATION -
      Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
      Section 54956.9 (b): One Case

          Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
          State Farm a/s/o Levell Thomas v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          General Counsel John Lavra & Board Clerk Marni Rittburg

      Moved by Director Goold, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by members
      present to deny the 910 Claim and refer to insurance.

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened in open session at 8:42 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
that the Board met in closed session on three items: 1. Workers' Compensation Settlement
Authority: Steven Johnson Workers' Compensation Claim, the Board voted unanimously to
give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a settlement of the matter. 2.
Pending Litigation, Bailey v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, no reportable action. 3.
910 Claim against the District, State Farm a/s/o Levell Thomas v. Sacramento Metropolitan
Fire District, the Board voted unanimously to deny the claim and refer to insurance carrier.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2025-06-12-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA




6.12.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 6 of 7
ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:44 p.m.



Ted Wood, Board President                        Robert W~bber, Secretary



Marni Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk




6.12.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                              Page 7 of 7
