                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                             Thursday, June 12, 2025 – 6:00 PM
Ted Wood                                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                   10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4
                                                Board Room – Second Floor
John Costa                                            Mather, California
Board Vice President
Division 9
                                                              &
                                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                   Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                     Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                    Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member            https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFlLQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Division 1

Grant Goold
Board Member           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D’Elman Clark
Board Member
                       Application, please click on the link above.
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member           reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member           accommodations:
Division 8
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, JUNE 12, 2025


 CALL TO ORDER

 ROLL CALL

 PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro14live.saccounty.gov. Today’s meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
June 16, 2025, and again at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, June 18, 2025, on Metro Cable
Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand at
youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers’ comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                     Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                              7
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of May 8, 2025.

2.     Final Reading and Adoption of Ordinance No. 2025-01, Adopting the 2025 Fire                                         11
       Hazard Severity Zone Map Ordinance
       Recommendation: Adopt Ordinance 2025-01, thereby adopting the 2025 Fire
       Hazard Severity Zone Map as required by the State Fire Marshal.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                    THURSDAY, JUNE 12, 2025


3.   Adopt Resolution – Request for Exception to the Formal Solicitation             16
     Process – Professional Services Contract with Concern for Employee Assistance
     Program (EAP) Services
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving an exception to the formal solicitation
     process and authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to negotiate, execute, and
     administer a one-year agreement materially similar to the attachment agreement with
     Concern for the provision of EAP services

4.   Adopt Resolution – County of Sacramento Hazardous Materials Response           44
     Teams Agreement
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the Fire Chief or his designee to
     execute and administer an agreement between the County of Sacramento and the
     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District for Hazardous Materials Response Teams.

5.   Adopt Resolution – Voluntary Rate Range Program (VRRP) with State of                                               68
     California Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) for Intergovernmental
     Transfers (IGT) from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024.
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution reauthorizing the Fire Chief to enter into the
     necessary agreements with DHCS to participate in the VRRP IGT reimbursement
     period covering January 1, 2024 through December 31, 2024.

6.   Adopt Resolution – Temporary Construction Easement – Watt/Myrtle                                                   71
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the execution of a Temporary
     Construction Easement with Pacific Gas and Electric Company.

7.   Adopt Resolution – Surplus Equipment                                                                               77
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the disposal of the I.T. Division's
     surplus equipment.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:
1.   CRRD – 2025 Fireworks Season                                                                                       80
     (Fire Marshal Amy Nygren)
     Recommendation: Receive the presentation.

ACTION ITEMS:
1.   Adopt Resolution – Capital Improvement Plan FY 25/26 – 29/30                 91
     (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)          **    Separate Attachment
     Recommendation: Receive presentation and adopt Resolution adopting the Capital
     Improvement Plan FY 2025/2026 – FY 2029/2030.

2.   Adopt Resolutions – Revisions to Fiscal Year (FY) 2024/25 Budget          106
     (Chief Financial Officer Dave O’Toole)
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolutions revising the FY 2024/25 Midyear Budget.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                    THURSDAY, JUNE 12, 2025


3.   Adopt Resolutions – FY 2025/26 Preliminary Budget                                   111
     (Chief Financial Officer Dave O’Toole)                      **      Separate Attachment
     A. Resolution – 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the General Operating Fund 212A
     B. Resolution – 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Capital Facilities Fund 212D
     C. Resolution – 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Pension Obligation Fund 212E
     D. Resolution – 2025/26 Committed Fund Balance for the Pension Obligation Fund 212E
     E. Resolution – 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Grants Fund 212G
     F. Resolution – 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Development Impact Fees Fund 212I
     G. Resolution – 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Leased Properties Fund 212L
     H. Resolution – 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Measure O Debt Service Fund 212N
     I. Resolution – 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Measure O Building Fund 212O
     J. Resolution – 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Special Projects Fund 212S
     Recommendation: Receive presentation and adopt the Resolutions adopting the
     Preliminary Budget for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

4.   Establish an Ad Hoc Committee for Ongoing Advice for Measure O                                                     **
     Implementation and Strategic Planning.
     (Board President Ted Wood)
     Recommendation: Appoint three Board Members to an Ad Hoc Committee for
     ongoing advice for Measure O implementation and strategic planning.

REPORTS:
1.   PRESIDENT’S REPORT — (President Wood)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT — (Chief House)

            OPERATIONS REPORT – (AC Mike Johnson)
            ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT – (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
            SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT – (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

3.   SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
     522 Vice President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

     A.    Executive Committee – (President Wood)
           Next Meeting: TBD

     B.     Communications Center JPA – (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
            Next Meeting: June 10, 2025, at 9:00 AM
            SRFECC Annex – 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite B, Sacramento
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                          THURSDAY, JUNE 12, 2025


         C.       Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Jones)
                  Next Meeting: June 26, 2025, at 5:30 PM

         D.       Policy Committee – (Director Costa)
                  Next Meeting: July 10, 2025, at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter(s):

1.       Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) –one (1) matter
         of Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority

              Steven Johnson and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              Claim # SMDP-549755; 4A230162R3W0001; 4A2306N87J40001
              Workers’ Compensation Settlement Authority
              Colin Connor, Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

2.       CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL – PENDING LITIGATION –
         PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9(d)(1)

              Ty Bailey v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              EAMS No. ADJ 18553924 and ADJ 20643634

3.       CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL – ANTICIPATED LITIGATION –
         Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
         Section 54956.9 (b): One Case

              Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
              State Farm a/s/o Levell Thomas v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              General Counsel John Lavra & Board Clerk Marni Rittburg

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •   Regular Board Meeting – June 26, 2025, at 6:00 PM

Posted on June 9, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                            THURSDAY, JUNE 12, 2025



_____________________________________
Marni Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
*    Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility.
