                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief

                                     BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING
                                               *AMENDED AGENDA
                                     Thursday, September 28, 2023 – 6:00 PM
                                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
D’Elman Clark                                     Fire Station 111
Board President
Division 6
                                                    Engine Bay
                                              16609 Rio Linda Blvd.
Grant Goold                                     Rio Linda, California
Board Vice President
Division 2                                               &
                                                Remotely Via Zoom
Ted Wood
Board Secretary                            Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Division 4                                    Passcode: metro2101
Cinthia Saylors                     Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Board Member                                  Passcode: 838771796 #
Division 1
                       https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFlLQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZV
Robert Webber                                     QVh4d1VWZz09
Board Member
Division 3
                       The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Jennifer Sheetz
Board Member               and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.
Division 5

Brian Rice             The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Board Member           the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
Division 7             appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
Gay Jones              Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 8
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
John Costa             reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Board Member           reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
Division 9
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
                       accommodations:

                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.



                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                              THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2023


 CALL TO ORDER

 ROLL CALL

 PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District will be cablecast on Metro Cable 14,
the local government affairs channel on Comcast, Consolidated Communications and AT&T U-
Verse cable systems. This meeting is also webcast at metro14live.saccounty.gov. Today’s
meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday, October 2, 2023 and 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday,
October 4, 2023 on Channel 14. This meeting can also be viewed at
youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and encourages
public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public members wishing
to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding officer and identify
themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of time and good order, limit
the number of public member presentations. Speakers’ comments will be limited to three (3)
minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members of
the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be present or
have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                   Page No.

1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                          5
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of August 10, 2023.

2.     Adopt Resolution – Reimbursement For Tax Exempt Debt                                                            11
       Recommendation: Staff recommends adoption of the reimbursement
       Resolution.

3.     Purchase of Motorola 800 MHz Radios                                               14
       Recommendation: Approve the Communications Division to purchase new
       Motorola 800 MHz Radio Equipment from Motorola Solutions Inc. at a total cost not
       to exceed the budgeted amount of $147,000.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                          THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2023


4.   Adopt Resolution – Temporary License Agreement – Sandbag Filling                                             16
     Station
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the Fire Chief or his
     designee to execute and administer an agreement with the County of
     Sacramento materially similar to the Temporary License Agreement
     attached.

5.   Engineer Kyle E. Rutherford Station 42 Dedication                                                            27
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution dedicating Station 42 in memory of
     Engineer Kyle E. Rutherford.

6.   Captain Miguel (Mike) A. Guzman Sr. Station 42 Dedication                                                    28
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution dedicating Station 42 in memory of
     Captain Miguel (Mike) A. Guzman Sr.

7.   *Adopt Resolution – Response to County of Sacramento Request                                                 29
     for Proposals 067
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution to authorize the Fire Chief or his designee
     to submit a response to County of Sacramento RFP 067 Opioid Remediation
     Activities.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.   Battalion 5 Water Tender Deployment                                                                          **
     (Chief Development Officer Jeff Frye & Assistant Chief Joe Fiorica)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation.

REPORTS:

1.   PRESIDENT’S REPORT — (President Clark)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT — (Chief House)
           OPERATIONS REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
           ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT – (CFO Dave O’Toole)
           SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT – (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

3.   SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (Captain Peter Votava, Local
     522)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

     A.     Executive Committee – (President Clark)
            Next Meeting: TBD
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                   THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2023


           B.      Communications Center JPA – (AC Greene)
                   Next Meeting: September 26, 2023 at 9:00 AM

           C.      Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Wood)
                   September 28, 2023 Meeting Cancelled; Next Meeting: October 26, 2023
                   at 5:00 PM

           D.      Policy Committee – (Director Costa)
                   Next Meeting: October 12, 2023

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •     Regular Board Meeting – October 12, 2023 at 6:00 PM
     •     Regular Board Meeting – October 26, 2023 at 6:00 PM

Amended Agenda Posted on September 26, 2023 by 5:55 p.m.


_____________________________________
Marni Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
**       Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
