       l           I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   lfiu*
  ADAM A. HOUSE
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


      Fire Chief


                                     BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING
                                               *AMENDED AGENDA
                                           Thursday, September 28, 2023 - 6:00 PM
                                             Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
□ 'Elman Clark                                          Fire Station 111
Board President
Division 6
                                                          Engine Bay
                                                     16609 Rio Linda Blvd.
Grant Goold                                           Rio Linda, California
Board Vice President
Division 2                                                      &
                                                      Remotely Via Zoom
Ted Wood
Board Secretary                                  Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Division 4                                           Passcode: metro2101
Cinthia Saylors                            Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Board Member                                        ir Passcode: 838771796 #
Division 1
                       https://us06web .zoom. us/ j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ 1Znd25RSmlhdXZV
Robert Webber                                        QVh4d 1VWZz09
Board Member
Division 3
                       The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Jennifer Sheetz
Board Member               and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.
Division 5

Brian Rice             The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Board Member           the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
Division 7             appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
Gay Jones              Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 8
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
John Costa             reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Board Member           reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
Division 9
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
                       accommodations:

                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.



                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                              THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2023


►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District will be cablecast on Metro Cable 14,
the local government affairs channel on Comcast, Consolidated Communications and AT&T U-
Verse cable systems. This meeting is also webcast at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov. Today's
meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday, October 2, 2023 and 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday,
October 4, 2023 on Channel 14. This meeting can also be viewed at
youtube. com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and encourages
public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public members wishing
to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding officer and identify
themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of time and good order, limit
the number of public member presentations. Speakers' comments will be limited to three (3)
minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members of
the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be present or
have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS :
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                   Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                          5
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of August 10, 2023.

2.     Adopt Resolution - Reimbursement For Tax Exempt Debt                                                            11
       Recommendation: Staff recommends adoption of the reimbursement
       Resolution .

3.     Purchase of Motorola 800 MHz Radios                                                                             14
       Recommendation: Approve the Communications Division to purchase new
       Motorola 800 MHz Radio Equipment from Motorola Solutions Inc. at a total cost not
       to exceed the budgeted amount of $147,000.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                          THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2023


4.   Adopt Resolution - Temporary License Agreement - Sandbag Filling                                             16
     Station
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the Fire Chief or his
     designee to execute and administer an agreement with the County of
     Sacramento materially similar to the Temporary License Agreement
     attached .

5.   Engineer Kyle E. Rutherford Station 42 Dedication                                                            27
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution dedicating Station 42 in memory of
     Engineer Kyle E. Rutherford.

6.   Captain Miguel (Mike) A. Guzman Sr. Station 42 Dedication                                                    28
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution dedicating Station 42 in memory of
     Captain Miguel (Mike) A. Guzman Sr.

7.   *Adopt Resolution - Response to County of Sacramento Request                29
     for Proposals 067
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution to authorize the Fire Chief or his designee
     to submit a response to County of Sacramento RFP 067 Opioid Remed iation
     Activities.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.   Battalion 5 Water Tender Deployment                                                                          **
     (Chief Development Officer Jeff Frye & Assistant Chief Joe Fiorica)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation .

REPORTS:

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                (President Clark)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Chief House)
           OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
           ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT- (CFO Dave O'Toole)
           SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

3.   SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (Captain Peter Votava, Local
     522)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

     A.     Executive Committee - (President Clark)
            Next Meeting: TBD
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2023


        B.      Communications Center JPA - (AC Greene)
                Next Meeting: September 26, 2023 at 9:00 AM

        C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
                 September 28, 2023 Meeting Cancelled; Next Meeting: October 26, 2023
                 at 5:00 PM

        D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
                 Next Meeting: October 12, 2023

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

ADJOURNMENT


NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

    •   Regular Board Meeting - October 12, 2023 at 6:00 PM
    •   Regular Board Meeting - October 26, 2023 at 6:00 PM

Amended Agenda Posted on September 26, 2023 by 5:55 p.m.



Marni Rittburg,    c,cPM
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
•'IDI Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting .
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
    l.         I
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~ff~
DAN HAVERTY
Interim Fire Chief


                     ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                                   BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                         SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                  Thursday, August 10, 2023
                                Held at the following locations:
                            10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                       Mather, California
                                                &
                                      Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:02 pm by President Clark. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Jones, Rice, Saylors, Sheetz, Webber and Wood. Board members absent:
  Goold. Staff present: Interim Chief Haverty, and Board Clerk Marni Rittburg.

   PUBLIC COMMENTS

   No public comments were received.

   CONSENT ITEMS

   Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by members
   present to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

   1.       Action Summary Minutes
            Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Special Board
            Meetings of June 3, 2023, June 24, 2023 and June 25, 2023.
            Action: Approved the Action Summary Minutes

   2.       Approval of the Purchase of six (6) North Star Ambulances From
            Braun Northwest, Inc.
            Recommendation: Approve the Purchase of six (6) 2024 North Star Ambulances
            from Braun Northwest, Inc.
            Action: Approved the Purchase of six (6) 2024 North Star Ambulances from Braun •
            Northwest, Inc.




                                                                                                              P5
ACTION ITEMS

1.    Fire Chief Employment Agreement - Adam House
      (General Counsel John Lavra)
      Recommendation: Approve the Employment Agreement.
      Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by
      members present to approve the employment agreement.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.    Swearing-In and Oath of Office to Chief Adam House
      (President Clark & Board Clerk Marni Rittburg)
      Action: President Clark invited Chief House and Chief House' family to join him at the
      front of the room to pin his badge and collar brass. Board Clerk Marni Rittburg
      administered the Oath of Office. Interim Chief Haverty passed the trumpet to Chief
      House, signifying passing command of Metro Fire.

2.    Sacramento County and District Property Tax Update
      (CFO Dave O'Toole)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.
      Action: Presentation received.

REPORTS

1.    PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Clark)

      No Report

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Chief House)

     1. Remarks/Thank You
        I want to express my thanks and gratitude for the trust and I'm truly humbled and
        proud to wear the Metro Fire patch for 23 years now. We have a fabulous
        organization and I couldn't be prouder.

     2. Meetings
         a. August 2, 2x2 meeting with Rancho Cordova; topics of discussion:
               • Year-to-date call volume statistics within the City
               • Overview of Fourth of July operations, events and fireworks enforcement
                 and safety messaging.
               • River rescue capabilities (American River Parkway)
               • Metro Fire's partnership with the City and its Homeless Outreach Team.
                 Metro Fire will be attending HOT collaboration meetings and connecting
                 our Mobile Integrated Health units with the team as well. We look forward
                 to partnering with the City and identifying how we can best support the
                 efforts of the Team and address issues of common interest.

8.10.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 2 of 6




                                                                                                P6
           b. August 3, Kyle Macdonald and I attended the annual Citrus Heights Elected
              Officials Reception.

           c. August 8, Kyle Macdonald and I attended the Citrus Heights Chamber
              Luncheon. Police Chief Alex Turcotte was the guest speaker and provided an
              overview on the PDs activities and efforts, and provided an opportunity for Q&A.

       3. Retirements
          Congratulations to Engineer Holly Wagner on her retirement on July 31, after 16
          years of service.

       4. Promotions
          Congratulations to Jake Buzzetta for being promoted to Captain effective August 11 .
          Captain Jake Buzzetta was introduced.

OPERATIONS REPORT (Deputy Chief.Adam MitchelD

1. McClellan Fire

   •    We responded to a fire in a large hangar at McClellan Park in the evening on Friday,
        July 28th . The fire went to 2 alarms. Crews 0vercame the complexity of the building
        size and construction to mitigate the fire. We worked closely with the McClellan Park
        management and the damage was contained to the hangar, which was under remodel.
   •    Crews that responded to the fire had a great after action discussion today at St. 114 to
        discuss the learning points from this high risk, low occurrence incident. Great job!

2. Sacramento OES Drill

   •    A day long large-scale drill occurred at Sacramento County OES yesterday, August
        9th that involved mitigation of multiple wildfires throughout the County and an EOC
        activation to support the activities.
   •    Proud to say we had 7 command officers in attendance functioning in high level roles
        throughout the EOC. It was great to see so many of our uniforms in the room . Very
        proud of their performance, the relationships they built, and now we have 7 more
        officers that can integrate into the EOC when needed!

3. Rancho Cordova HOT Meeting

   •    Meeting attended Monday, August 7th with BC Perryman to discuss current needs and
        future collaboration opportunities.
   •    Great opportunity to build relationships. Chief Perryman spoke of the opportunity our
        MIH can provide them, and I have already had some follow-up discussions with
        Heather Cook from Rancho Cordova to get th.em some help on a couple items. We
        look forward to the next meeting.


8.10.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 3 of 6




                                                                                                   P7
4. EMS UPDATE
   •   Assistant Chief Rudnicki and Battalion Chief Perryman along with Medical Director Dr.
       Alex Schmalz provided a status update on the Opioid Epidemic and problems with
       Fentanyl on our streets. They provided a heat map of our District of where those calls
       occur most frequently and the responses in 2021-2022. In 2021, our District had
       1,590 overdoses, in 2022 it went up 1,636 and this year we are on track to see a 10%
       increase.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT (HR Manager Melisa Maddux)

No updates from the Community Relations Division or the Finance Division.

Human Resources
                               )

TPA Contract: HR received the fully executed contract with the District's new Third-Party
Administrator, next step is to meet with the Transition Team.

Transparency Certificate: Human Resources is starting the renewal process for the District's
Transparency Certificate of Excellence with the Special District Leadership Foundation.
The transparency certificate was part of board strategy #3 of the FY 15/16 Strategic Plan and
has been updated every 2 years as a best practice.

"The purpose of the transparency certificate of excellence is to promote transparency in the
operations and governance of special districts to the public and provide special districts with
an opportunity to showcase their efforts in transparency."

Recruitment and Backgrounds
  • Paramedic Interviews held on August 9th and all candidates were successful.
  • Mechanic Interviews scheduled for 8/29, 8 candidates invited.
  • •Firefighter Paramedic Interviews scheduled 8/23 - 8/24, 47 candidates invited.
  • Arson Investigator in Backgrounds and should be done shortly.
  • 2 Administrative Specialist currently in Backgrounds (BG) for openings in EMS and
     Support Services.
  • 1 Legislative Analyst currently in BG.
  • 11 Paramedics in BG.

SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT (Deputy Chief Tyler Wagaman)

Facilities: Station 54 received a new gate for their wildland engine.

Fleet: Ford Motor Company will fulfill the government order which is very good news as it's
been on hold for quite some time. We received three brand new Type 1 Engines.

Congratulations to Chief House and I look forward to the next chapter.


8.10.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 4 of 6




                                                                                                   PB
3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard for Vice
   President Matt Cole)

Moment of silence for two fallen brothers in Riverside County, Assistant Chief Joshua Bischof
and Fire Captain Tim Rodriguez. Thanked the membership, both current and past for being in
the room tonight. We want to express heartfelt gratitude to Interim Chief Haverty and the
Board for all the hours away from your families and allowing the membership to be involved
in the Fire Chief recruitment process. Also, sincere congratulations to Chief House and we
couldn't be prouder and we feel he is most effective leader to have in the chair to face the
current and upcoming challenges.

4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
      10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless othe,wise specified.

      A.       Executive Committee - (President Clark)
               Next Meeting : TBD
               No Report.

      8.       Communications Center JPA - (AC Greene)

               The last communication center meeting was cancelled, no report.

       C.      Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)

               No Report.

      D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
               Met this evening with a full agenda including an action item that cleaned up
               language on the Purchasing and Contracting Policy and two presentations;
               Reinstatement Policy which revised language making it easier for employees to
               come back that left in good standing. Also, Financial Planning and Budget
               Policy, which is a new policy, and the committee did ask that policy come to the
               Board for review and feedback at a future meeting .

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Saylors expressed her sincere congratulations to Chief House and that the District is
moving in a very positive direction. Thank you to Chief Haverty for stepping up and guiding
us. Also, thank you to the District members who continue to do a great job in this time of
change.

Director Costa expressed his congratulations to Chief House and I am looking forward to
everything that you will bring with your leadership. Very glad I got the chance to work with
Chief Haverty, what a kind and thoughtful human being.


8.10.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                       Page 5 of 6




                                                                                                                   pg
Director Jones stated what a high-quality meeting we have had tonight. Congratulations to
Chief Adam House for taking the reins of Metro Fire. I was privileged to have worked with
Chief Dan Haverty back in 1995 during a flooding disaster in our region and it's been such a
wonderful pleasure working with him recently as the Interim Fire Chief.

Director Webber thanked everyone for coming out tonight and supporting Chief House. Chief
Haverty was incredible in his short time here and was able to move several projects forward.

Director Rice congratulations to Chief House, you have a great foundation to build on and as
I look around the room and see all of the retirees that built this agency. Please stick together
to support Chief House and each other and his leadership team.

Director Wood everything has already been said. Chief Dan Haverty was the right sole for
the time period and a big thank you to him. Chief House you have an immense responsibility
and you have our confidence.                 •

Director Sheetz great operations report from EMS AC Jon Rudnicki, BC Scott Perryman and
Doctor Schmalz, thank you, we are providing the right care at the right time. Chief Dan
Haverty it was wonderful working with you and you are such a role model. Chief House, very
excited to continue working with you in your new role as Chief.

President Clark not much I can add. Very optimistic for the future of Metro Fire with Chief
House and the wonderful crews we have. Condolences and prayers to the residents of Maui
and the Firefighters fighting the fires on the island.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:
https://metrofire.ca.gov/2023-08-10-board-meeting
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA


ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 7:23 p.m.




D'Elman Clark, President                           Ted Wood, Secretary



Marni Rittburg, CMC, Board Clerk




8.10.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 6 of 6




                                                                                                   P10
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite #200, Mather, CA 95655 • (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief


   DATE:           September 28, 2023

   TO:             Board of Directors

   SUBJECT:        Resolution 2023-XXX: Reimbursement For Tax Exempt Debt

                                                    TOPIC
   Staff recommends adoption of the attached reimbursement resolution to reimburse the
   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") for funds that have been or may be expended
   prior to issuing tax-exempt debt. The recommended action is in anticipation of the District entering
   into a capital lease transaction to fund the purchase of budgeted capital expenditures.

                                                DISCUSSION
   In order to legally reimburse expenditures made prior to the issuance of tax-exempt debt, a
   reimbursement resolution must be in place pursuant to U.S. Treasury regulation Section 1.150-2.
   Adoption of a reimbursement resolution does not bind the District to issuing future debt. Instead,
   a reimbursement resolution allows the District to use its own funds for capital expenditures and
   later repay itself from the financing proceeds.

   Purchases made after the reimbursement resolution adoption and those made no more than
   60 days prior to adoption are eligible for reimbursement. Staff anticipates the recommendation to
   finance not more than $2,500,000 of capital purchases in accordance with the Capital
   Improvement Program (CIP) and the FY 2023/24 Final Budget. The capital purchases expected
   to be financed and received in the current fiscal year includes medics, medic remounts, a Type V
   engine, and a service truck.

                                              FISCAL IMPACT
   Adoption of the resolution will allow reimbursement of qualified District expenditures up to
   $2,500,000. These purchases are included in the District's FY 2023/24 Final Budget.

                                           RECOMMENDATION
   Staff recommends adoption of the attached reimbursement resolution.


   Submitted by:


     v~~
   Dave O'Toole                                             Adam A. House
   Chief Financial Officer                                  Fire Chief

   ATTACHMENTS:
   Attachment 1: Resolution


                                 Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                               P11
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief



                                RESOLUTION NO. 2023~XXX

    A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
   DECLARING THE OFFICIAL INTENT OF THE DISTRICT TO REIMBURSE ITSELF
   FOR CERTAIN CAPITAL AND OTHER EXPENDITURES FROM THE PROCEEDS
                     OF PROPOSED INDEBTEDNESS


         WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political
  subdivision of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant
  to the State constitution and laws; and

          WHEREAS, the District expects to expend some of its own funds to purchase the
   Capital Assets (Reimbursement Expenditures) prior to the issuance of indebtedness for
   the purpose of financing costs associated with the Capital Assets on a long-term basis;
   and

          WHEREAS, the District reasonably expects that the debt obligations for the Capital
   Assets will be issued in total for not more than $2,500,000 and that certain of the proceeds
   of such debt obligations will be used to reimburse the Reimbursement Expenditures.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the
   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, as follows:

       1. Compliance with Treasury Regulations

          This declaration is made solely for purposes of establishing compliance with
   requirements of Section 1.150-2 of the Treasury Regulations. This declaration does not
   bind the District to make any Capital Asset expenditure or incur any indebtedness.

      2. Intent to Reimburse the District from Proceeds of Indebtedness

         The District hereby declares its official intent to use proceeds of indebtedness to
   reimburse itself for Reimbursement Expenditures as follows:

                a) The District will allocate the proceeds of such debt obligations to
                   Reimbursement Expenditures no later than 18 months after the latter of
                   (i) the date the cost is paid or (ii) the date the Capital Asset is placed in
                   service or abandoned (but in no event more than three (3) years after the
                   cost is paid).


                                 Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                          P12
RESOLUTION NO. 2023-XXX
Page2


          b) The District intends, and reasonably expects, to be reimbursed with the
             proceeds of the Debt for expenditures made on and after July 30, 2023,
             which date is no more than 60 days prior to the date hereof.

   3. Effective Date

       This Resolution shall take effect from and after the date of its passage and
adoption.

        PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 28th day of September,
2023. I, MARNI RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN
FIRE DISTRICT HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and
passed at a regular meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the
following roll call vote:

AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:


                                SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                By: - - - - - - - - -- - - --
                                    President, Board of Directors

ATTEST:


Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board




                                                                                        P13
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   1         I
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 _ Mather, CA 95655 _ Phone (916) 859-4300 _ Fax (916) 859-3702

lfiu,~
ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief


       DATE:        September 28th , 2023

       TO:          Board of Directors

       SUBJECT:     Purchase of Motorola 800 MHz Radios



                                                  TOPIC

       Board authorization for the Communications Division to purchase Motorola 800 MHz
       Mobile Radios for installation in new vehicles.

                                               DISCUSSION

       The Communications Division needs to procure radio equipment for new vehicles
       budgeted for purchase during the 2023/24 fiscal year. The radio equipment will be
       purchased from Motorola Solutions Inc. through a sole source purchase.

       Metro Fire is a subscriber to Sacramento County's Motorola 800 MHz Radio System
       and utilizes Motorola 800 MHz Radios for two-way voice communication between field
       units and dispatch. Motorola has a Master Contract (#WA00034181) with the County of
       Sacramento for the purchase of Motorola Public Safety Radios compatible with this
       system. These Public Safety radios are not available through another vendor.

                                             FISCAL IMPACT

       This purchase will not result in additional Discretionary General Funding. Funding for
       this purchase is included in the 2023/24 Fiscal Year Final Budget as part of the Capital
       Improvement Plan (CIP) and allocated to the Communications Division to purchase
       these radios.


                                          RECOMMENDATION

       Staff recommends the Board to approve the Communications Division to purchase new
       Motorola 800 MHz Radio Equipment from Motorola Solutions Inc. at a total cost not to
       exceed the budgeted amount of $147,000.




                                    Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                               P14
Page 2



         Submitted by:



         Steve Jordan
         Communications Manager




                                  Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                           P15
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                      10545 Armstrong Ave. , Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief


     DATE:           September 28, 2023
     TO:             Board of Directors
     SUBJECT:        Adopt Resolution - Temporary License Agreement - Sandbag Filling
                     Station

                                               TOPIC
     Approval requested for granting a Temporary License Agreement to the County of Sacramento
     Department of Water Resources (DWR) for a sandbag filling station at Station 116 in Elverta.

                                          BACKGROUND
     The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District received a request from the County of Sacramento
     DWR to access and use a portion of the Station 116 site as a community sandbag site for flood
     protection during the winter season.

                                                DISCUSSION
     The District supports DWR's flood protection efforts and believes the proposed use is consistent
     with the District's mission and vision. As such, staff worked with DWR to negotiate the attached
     Temporary License Agreement (Agreement) for DWR's use. Authorized use is limited to
     November 1st - May 1st annually for the purpose of sandbag filling. The term of the Agreement
     shall renew annually unless terminated by the District or DWR.

                                            FISCAL IMPACT
     Provided the DWR's use is consistent with the authorized use described in the Agreement, rent
     for the Agr'eement is waived, therefore there is no fiscal impact associated with the Temporary
     License Agreement.

                                         RECOMMENDATION
     Staff recommends that the Board adopt the attached Resolution authorizing the Fire Chief or his
     designee to execute and administer an agreement with the County of Sacramento materially
     similar to the Temporary License Agreement attached.

     Submitted by:                                         Approved by:__
                                                             ,


     1&~
     Erin Castleberry                                      Jef
                                                           Chi          opment Officer
     Administrative Analyst

     ATTACHMENTS:

     Attachment 1: Resolution
     Attachment 2: Temporary License Agreement




                                    Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                              P16
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
  l            I   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700


~i;J"
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief

                               RESOLUTION NO. 2023-XXX

      A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
              APPROVING A TEMPORARY LICENSE AGREEMENT
                   WITH THE COUNTY OF SACRAMENTO

         WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political
  subdivision of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant to
  the State constitution and laws; and

        WHEREAS, the District is the owner of certain real property located at 7995 Elwyn
  Avenue in Elverta, California ("Property"); and

          WHEREAS, the County of Sacramento's Department of Water Resources ("DWR")
   desires to enter into a Temporary License Agreement ("Agreement") to use a portion of the
   Property as a community sandbag site for flood protection during the winter season; and

          WHEREAS, the proposed use is consistent with the Fire Protection District Law
   (Health & Safety Code §13800, specifically §13862(f)); and

           WHEREAS, the District desires to grant the Agreement for such purposes.

         NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the Sacramento
   Metropolitan Fire District does hereby authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to execute and
   administer a Temporary License Agreement with the County of Sacramento.

           PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 28th day of September, 2023. I, MARNI
   RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
   HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting
   of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

   AYES:
   NOES:
   ABSENT:
   ABSTAIN:

                                         SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                         By: - - - - - -- - - - -- - -
                                             President, Board of Directors
   ATTEST:


   Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
   Clerk of the Board
                               Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                         P17
                                    TEMPORARY LICENSE AGREEMENT

This Temporary License Agreement (Agreement) is dated for reference purposes as of September 1st,
2023, and is entered into by and between the SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT hereinafter
called District and the COUNTY OF SACRAMENTO, hereinafter called County. District hereby grants to
County a license to use District property, as defined below.

       WHEREAS, District is the owner and operator of Fire Station #116 which is located at 7995 Elwyn
Avenue in Elverta, and the District's Board of Directors has the right to grant access to and use of, Station
#116 for temporary use; and

        WHEREAS, County's Department of Water Resources (OW~) desires to enter into this Agreement
with the District to use the Station #116 premises as a community sandbag site for flood protection during
the winter season; and

        WHEREAS, the proposed use of the property is consistent with The Fire Protection District Law
(Health & Safety Code §13800, specifically §13862(f)); and

       WHEREAS, District agrees to allow County to temporarily use Station 116 premises for such
purposes; and

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein, the parties desire
to enter into this Agreement:

1.      Premises: The following Premises are permitted for use and accepted by County in their "as-is"
condition and without any expressed or implied representations or warranties of any kind whatsoever.
The Premises are shown on Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference, and
more particularly described as:

        •   Approximately three thousand (3,000) square feet of paved space at Station #116.

2.     Term: This Agreement shall be effective as of the date executed by all parties in Section 30, below,
and shall annually renew unless terminated in accordance with the provisions stipulated herein or as
extended upon written notice by the Fire Chief (Term).

3.      Termination: Either party may, upon prior written notice to the other of at least ten (10) business
days, terminate this Agreement without cause. However, if there are extenuating circumstances that
could not have been foreseen, this Agreement may be terminated immediately upon written request from
County, and approval of such by the Fire Chief, and both parties shall have no further obligations with
respect to this Agreement.

         If County is in default of its obligations herein, County or Fire Chief may, in addition to all other
rights, give written notice terminating this Agreement at any time, with such termination to be effective
three (3) ca lendar days from the date of receipt of such notice. If the Fire Chief reasonably believes that
continuing operation by Cou nty will threaten the security, safety, or health of others, or if County fails to
maintain the insurance coverage required herein, or if County does not comply with applicable law, this
Agreement may be terminated without prior notice and the permitted activities must be immediately
halted.



Temporary License Agreement                                                                      Page 1 of 9



                                                                                                                 P18
4.      Authorized Use: County, its subcontractors, and authorized agents shall use the Premises as a
sandbag filling station from November 1st through May 1st, and for no other purpose. In no event shall
County's use of the Premises extend beyond May 1st without prior written approval from the Fire Chief.
In conjunction with the County's use, County may supply and use two metal storage containers.

        County, its employees, agents, sub-contractors, guests, invitees, trainees, suppliers of materials,
furnishers of services, and any authorized representatives shall have rights of ingress and egress with
respect to the following areas: 1) Station #116 parking lot; and 2) the Premises.

       Any additional use or activity on the Premises must be requested in writing and approved in
advance by the Fire Chief.

         County's use of the Premises shall at all times be in accordance with and comply with all applicable
federal, State, and local laws, regulations, and ordinances.

5.      Rent: Provided County's use remains consistent with the District's enabling act under Health &
Safety Code §13800, et seq., Rent for this Agreement shall be waived.

6.      Security Deposit: The security deposit required for this Agreement shall be waived.

7.      Limitations: County shall use the Premises in accordance with the following limitations and all
other applicable terms, promises, conditions, and covenants contained herein. County:

            a) Shall exercise reasonable care in the operation of the community sandbag site, the ingress
               and egress of individuals, vehicles, property, and or equipment used in conjunction with
               the operation of the site, and reasonable care for the safety of the public, County
               employees and employees of the District.

            _
            b l Shall not access any other part of Station #116 other than what is specifically identified
                on Exhibit A herein.

            c)   Shall not in any way obstruct, injure, or interfere with the rights of others.

            d) Shall not allow any sale by auction on the Premises, unless approved in writing in advance,
               by the Fire Chief.

            e) Shall not use or allow Station #116 to be used for any improper, immoral, or unlawful
               purpose.

            f)   Shall not obstruct the sidewalks, roadways, or passageways adjacent to the Premises or
                 elsewhere.

            g) Shall not allow smoking within twenty (20) feet of any door.

            h) Shall not park in any areas not approved by the Battalion Chief (Battalion 5).

8.      Utilities: If applicable, County shall be responsible for County's proportional direct or allocated
cost of utilities: electrical, water, sanitary sewer, and fire monitoring as billed by District. County agrees
that any and all charges for such services shall be paid within fourteen (14) days of receipt of invoice from


Temporary License Agreement                                                                       Page 2 of 9



                                                                     I                                           P19
District. District shall not be liable to County for any interruption or curtailment of any utility service, nor
shall any such interruption or curtailment.

9.       Interest on Late Payments: If County is in arrears for seven (7) or more days on any payment due
pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, County shall pay District interest thereon from the date such
rents, fees, or charges became payable through the date of payment, at the rate of one and one-half
percent (1.5%) per month or the maximum legal rate if such rate is less.

10.      Additional Fees, Charges, and Rentals: County shall pay to District additional fees, charges, and
rentals in the event of any of the following:

             a) District has paid any sum or sums, or has incurred any obligation or expense, for which
                County has agreed to pay or reimburse District, or for which County is otherwise
                responsible pursuant to applicable laws or regulations;

             b) District is required or elects to pay any sum or sums, or incur any obligation or expense,
                because of the failure, neglect, or refusal of County to perform or fulfill any of the
                promises, terms, conditions, or covenants required of it herein; and/or

             c)   Monies are due pursuant to any separate permit or written agreement between the
                  parties not contained herein.

        County's obligations pursuant to this Section shall include all interest, cost, dam-ages, and
penalties in conjunction with such sums so paid or expenses so incurred by County, which may be added
by County to any installment of fees, charges, and rents payable herein. Each and every part of such
payment by County shall be recoyerable by County in the same manner and with like remedies as if it
were expressly set forth herein.

         For all purposes under this Section and in any suit, action, or proceeding of any kind between the
parties hereto, any receipt showing the payment of any sum or sums by District for, or in connection with,
any work done or material furnished shall be prima facie evidence against County that the amount of such
payment was necessary and reasonable.

        County shall pay any and all monies due to District pursuant to this Section within thirty (30) days
following demand thereof, or within the time specified by applicable ordinance, resolution, or minute
order of County.

11.    Expenses: County shall bear any and all costs and expenses associated with this Agreement and
the permitted use of the Premises.

12.     Surrender/Restoration: County shall peaceably surrender possession of the Premises upon
expiration or sooner termination of this Agreement, remove all personal property, and return the
Premises to District in as good of condition as when received, reasonable wear and tear excepted. Should
County fail to remove its personal property in a manner satisfactory to the District, District may, at its sole
election, upon written notice to County: 1) consider such personal property abandoned and may dispose
of same at the expense of County; or 2) after thirty (30) days of such expiration, declare the personal
property of County to be vested in the District.




Temporary License Agreement                                                                        Page 3 of 9



                                                                                                                   P20
 13.      Damage: County shall be responsible for any personal injury or damage to ~he Premi_   ses caused
 by its activities while on the Premises. No work performed by County shall cause any unreasonable
 interference of District's activities or use by District of Premises. County shall undertake all activities
 hereunder to minimize any damage or destruction of any appurtenances of District. Any and all activities
 on the Premises must directly respond to best management practices for site cleanliness, pollution
 prevention, and waste classification of soil for disposal. The provision of this Section shall survive the
 expiration or termination of this Agreement.

 14.       Indemnification: To the fullest extent allowed by law, County shall indemnify, defend, and hold
 harmless District, its governing Board, officers, officials, employees, and authorized volunteers and
 agents, (collectively "Indemnified Parties") from and against any and all claims, demands, actions, losses,
 liabilities, damages, and all expenses and costs incidental thereto (collectively "Claims"), including cost of
 defense, settlement, arbitration, and reasonable attorneys' fees, resulting from injuries to or death of
 persons, including but not limited to employees of either party hereto, and damage to or destruction of
 property or loss of use thereof, including but not limited to the property of either party hereto, arising
 out of, pertaini_ng to, or resulting from the acts or omissions of County, its officers, agents, employees,
 invitees, volunteers, or contractors, or the acts or omissions of anyone else directly or indirectly acting on
 behalf of County, or for which County is legally liable under law regardless of whether caused in part by
 an Indemnified Party. County shall not be liable for any Claims arising from the negligence or willful
 misconduct of an Indemnified Party where such indemnification would be invalid under Section 2782 of
 the Civil Code. This indemnification shall not be limited by the types and amounts of insurance or self-
 insurance maintained by County or County's contractors. Nothing in this Indemnification shall be
 construed to create any duty to, any standard of care with reference to, or any liability or obligation,
 contractual or otherwise, to any third party. The provisions of this Indemnification shall survive the
 expiration or termination of this Agreement.

 15.      Compliance with Laws: In the prosecution of the use covered by this Agreement, County shall
 comply w ith all applicable federal, State, and local laws, regulations, and enactments. In addition, County
 shall comply with all applicable federal, State, and local occupational safety and health acts and
 regulations. If any failure by County to comply with any such laws, regulations, and enactm ents shall result
 in any fine, penalty, cost, or charge being assessed, imposed, or charged against County, County shall
 reimburse and indemnify District of any such fine, penalty, cost, or charge, including without limitation,
 attorney's fees, court costs, and expenses (except environmental fines and penalties which shall be
 handled in accordance with Section 18). The provisions of this Section shall survive the expiration or
 termination of this Agreement.

 16.      Counterparts: This Agreement may be executed in multiple duplicate counterparts, each of which
 shall be deemed an original, by all of which, together, sha ll constitute one and the same instrument.

  17.     Attorney's Fees and Costs: Any party may bring a suit or proceeding to enforce or require
• performance of the terms of this Agreement, and each party shall be responsible for its own attorney's
  fees and costs.

 18.    Environmental Fines and Penalties: Notwithstanding the foregoing, County shall assume
 responsibility for and payment of any fines or penalties levied o n either County or the District by any
 governmental authority (Authority) for breaches of the Authority's environmenta l regulations resulting
 from the operations or actions on the Premises by County. In addition, it is understood that, during the
 course of the activities allowed by this Agreement, the environmental regulations implemented or


 Temporary License Agreement                                                                      Page 4 of 9



                                                                                                                  P21
imposed by the Authority may change. County specifically agrees to comply with any future
environmental regulations implemented or imposed by the Authority on County or the District. The
provisions of this Section shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

19.     Site Maintenance: County shall at its sole cost and expense perform maintenance and repair
related to County's activities, including but not limited to:

            a) Care for the Premises, including the approaches thereto and all appurtenances of the
               Premises, to ensure dust and trash control at all times. County shall comply with haste for
               all requests by the District to eliminate trash or other debris.

            b) Provide pest control as necessary.

            c)   Provide all maintenance necessary to ensure Premises are kept reasonably litter-free.

            d) Be solely responsible for the cost of any repair or maintenance to the Premises resulting
               from the negligent acts or omissions of County, its officers, agents, employees, invitees,
               suppliers, or contractors. In the event of such damage, District may elect to perform such
               repair or maintenance itself, at District's sole cost and expense, or require County to
               perform the same at County's sole cost and expense. Provided, however, if such repair or
               maintenance is not of an emergency nature, as determined by the Fire Chief in his sole
               discretion, District shall give County fifteen (15) days advance written notice of its election
               in such matter.

        County agrees to take good care of the Premises and to return the same at the termination of this
Agreement in as good condition, or better, as when received, excepting ordinary wear and tear and
natural decay.

20.   Maintenance Responsibility of District: District has no maintenance responsibilities under this
Agreement. Premises are permitted for use and accepted by County in their "as is" condition.

21.     Improvements or Alterations: No improvements or alterations of any kind, shall be erected,
placed, assembled, constructed, or permitted on the Premises without a prior written submittal of the
proposed project to the Fire Chief. Upon review of the proposal, the Fire Chief will provide County a
written response and direction for the proposed project. County shall pay for all contractor services and
all materials for any approved alteration of, or improvement to, the Premises, and shall permit no lien or
claim to be filed or prosecuted against District on account of such labor and materials furnished.

22.     Insurance: County agrees to maintain insurance or be legally self-insured for general liability
($1,000,000.00), Automobile/vehicle ($1,000,000.00}, and workers compensation $1,000,000.00.

23.     Successors and Assigns: This Agreement shall bind the successors and assigns of District and
County in the same manner as if they were expressly named. Waiver by either party of any default, breach,
or condition precedent shall not be construed as a waiver of any other default, breach, or condition
precedent or any other right hereunder.

24.     Notices: Notices required herein (with the exception of advance notice to access Premises) shall
be in writing and served personally, sent via regular U.S. Mail or overnight couri er. Any notice mailed
pursuant to this Section shall be presumed to have been deemed received by the addressee five (5)


Temporary License Agreement                                                                      Page 5 of 9



                                                                                                                 P22
business days after deposit of same in the mail to the address below. The parties shall have the right, by
giving t en (10) days advance written notice to the other, to change the addressee or address at which its
notices are to be received.

 District                                     County

 Sacrament o Metropolitan Fire District       County of Sacramento
 Planning & Development                       Department of Water Resources
 10545 Armstrong Ave, Suite 300               10151 Florin Rd
 Mather, CA 95655                             Sacramento, CA 95829

25.    Amendm ents: Modifications or amendments to t he term s of this Agreement shall be in writing
and executed by all parties.

26.     Interpretation and Enforcement: Interpretation and enforcement of this Agreement shall be
govern ed by laws of the State of California.

27.     Entire Agreem ent: This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto
with respect to.the subj ect matter hereof and su persedes all prior oral or written agreements, permits,
and understandings between the parties relating to such subject matter.

28.      Not an Interest in Real Property: County acknowledges the Agreement does not convey any
interest in real property now or in the future.

29.     Statement.Regarding a Certified Access Specialist

        Pursuant to California Civil Code §1938, the District states that the Premises:

        cg]     Have not undergone an inspection by a Certified Access Specialist (CASp).

        D       Have undergone an inspection by a Certified Access Specialist (CASp) and it was
                determined t hat the Premises met all applicable construction-related accessibility
                standards and a disability access inspection certificate has been issued pursuant t o
                Californ ia Civil Code §55.51 et seq.

        D       Have undergone an inspection by a Certified Access Specialist (CASp) and it was
                determined that th e Premises did not meet all applicable construction-related
                accessibility standards pursuant to Californ ia Civil Code §55.51 et seq.

        A Certified Access Specialist (CASp) ca n inspect the subject premises and determin e w hether the
subject premises comply with all of the applicable construction-related accessibility st andards under
state law. Although state law does not require a CASp inspection of t he subject prem ises, the
commercial property owner or lessor may not prohibit the lessee or tenant from obtaining a CASp
inspection of t he subject prem ises for the occupancy or potential occupancy of t he lessee or tenant, if
requested by the lessee or tenant. The parties shall mutually agree on the arrangements for the time
and manner of th e CASp inspection, the payment of the fee for the CASp inspection, and the cost of
making any repairs necessa ry to correct violations of construction-relat ed accessibility sta ndards within
the premises.




Temporary License Agreement                                                                     Page 6 of 9



                                                                                                               P23
                              Remainder of page intentionally left blank




Temporary License Agreement                                                Page 7 of 9



                                                                                         P24
30.  By mutual agreement, District and County hereby agree to the
terms and conditions of the Agreement as expressly set forth herein.



                                  SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE
                                  DISTRICT, an autonomous Special
                                  District established under California
                                  Health and Safety Code Section 13800

                                          "District"



Date: _ _ _ __ _ _ __             By: - - - - - - - -- - - -
                                        Adam A. House
                                        Fire Chief



                                  COUNTY OF SACRAMENTO, a political
                                  subdivision of the State of California

                                          "County"



Date: _ _ _ __ _ __ _             By: - - - - - - -- -- - - -

                                  Title: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ __



Reviewed and Approved:




By: - - -- - -- - - - -
      General Counsel




Attachments:
           Exhibit A - Premises



Temporary License Agreement                                          Page 8 of 9



                                                                                   P25
                               EXHIBIT A

                               Premises




Temporary License Agree ment               Page 9 of 9



                                                         P26
               ReS'olution /Or Kyle E~
               Ruthetfo,,d S'tation 42
                     Dedication
       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District wishes to dedicate Statiof! 12 in memory ofKyle E. Ruthe1ford, who passed
away Thursday, March_2~;1 ·i ·qq~'i' a_,t tfie/ ~J!er.:: 3~ ftom injuries sustained while
reporting for duty, _!.wGraJs Y,hl{ef ,vq alifq1/t11a;-~{,id ; _ ,.
                  /
                   .•
                       \_   ~ \ \ ,·
                                      \   •
                                                   ' t / ,1 \r (l              I ,. '
                                                                              ,f
       W~E_IJE1S,'- K_ylc_ ~~,jl.ut~1t~!fonl~7!r..ue,_q7_[01·. 6 years/ li!11J /he Sacrament~
Metropol~f'1'?,R.z~eJ)1st~~~t,(;1.,~;J.vlis ~1f;]}!{n~1{J!!1e1£!!'efl_ul!!_c~, Wfll 1:fsp~cted by /us
peers, w/~o ltook gre~y pnd~Jfi- publ~f~<l{iY.lc_~r.,f.~ d if!.~1r{ng1tf con{_11J,lf1!lty s~fe. He
workeflat ¥_~,tro FJ.!:e _s f tfflJ: .!12,. ,~~bdt~a~~ ~. N~~~~rW av.~,qy, proual~.·;:~ervzng the
Sacnimento,_ eommun''iijJ:.b ~N~rth H1ghlandsil and'                ~ \.;_: , ,.-
                                                       Iii                ;
                                                                                         >, - /
                                                        1
    {        "               Jlf ,, ·, ,. .            I             l
      I        •        ---   b I 1, ' , '
                              ,,, -   -                I            ,, ,.r• --.. ~ -- - ,   •      •
   / WHERfAS~( llit,·lJJO'(lrd\ nj ~irectors rlf . the Sacrainet~rtrf-M.ptropolztan Fire
Dfytrict, on belialf hJJ(t~.e S(li!'f11/:elii,o. M ~t,•rpolitari /Jl},JJ'1J1s~fi~t does hereby
ackno~ledge the exemplary p'r)b1ii1ervice q,h'd dedicatidn ofKyle E. Ruthk,ford.
          1i                     \'                ~11,,1                          .,.            1
                                              l        "l        t•"' f

      NOW, THEREFO~, . JJE IT RESOLVE])_,_'the Board of Directors of the
Sacramento Metrbjfoluan Fife D:tstri-ct-do--es··-fi~~·~by proclmm recognition and
remembrance o'J1'J(yl~ E. Ruthejr'iiiJ}h""l'o1.
                            I
                                               ,l his c'ounfl~ss
                                -'t{ I J • I I • •         I 'I I
                                                             j
                                                                  contributions and the sunnort
                                                                                          'J:'.I:'
he provided for the Fire ser.vicl )and p ~bl~a,\dJety-·py 1dedicating Station 42 in his
honor.

     BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this foregoing Resolution No. 2023-)(XX
was passed and adopted on the 28th day of September 2023, by the Sac1·amento
Metropolitan Fire District Board ofDirectors.



                                                      D'Elman Clark, Board President



                                                      Marni Rittburg, Board Clerk
          Resolntion Jo,, Mignel A~
           Gnz;man, S'r~ S'tation 42
                                           Dedication
       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District wishes to dedicate Station 42_in mem01y ofMiguel A. Guzman, who passed
away Thursday, March 16, 199-9;, a( the ag;'e pf 13 from injuries sustained while on
duty, inSacrament<1:,-Californi~.\l ~j \ I j ~         1
                                                      1 ).                      l' .~\.·;;
                                                                                     >1 Ii I f I i1
                                                                                                             1
                         ,
                             •         \   < \
                                           '
                                                   \   \
                                                                                          '   1   •   r.1   J l        I
      WHEJ{EAS, MigitelA.
              /      _    ~    ~
                                  Guz,ng.n:sefW?.das afirefighterf.Qr.Jr22years. He was an
                                 \,,       ..:..           ,,.:,2:_5 .. -            I1           \               )    t;>   >

hon~rabl~ Firefl_ghte~, _tvell/fjfJ!.ectedt.f~ his.~fl.le11s, •~~o took ?'{at,f~ide in public
service aµdimafung Jus1:oo/,nun1ty sfff.~~:l_l {e Ji{~rked atMetro.f'zre Sta(fffl 42, located
on N01:lh H,,av~li, prfJ!,dlyl_rlving th~IStlcrdnl,~nto ~OP!Mu~,~ ~ofNiJft~,,!fi~hlands;
and / '   t   , '·     '~:J f{{ '       ,.         'j l_ij , \\ t:.-~·•'       ,· ·~- ./ .
     I:                                                      •                   r                    IJ
    / ' WHER#ASJ,(ilfii1Bo\~rd q]'t>.~rectors ~~ the Sa,tr~t!J/Trl~Yf,,e{ropolitan Fire
Diftrict, on belialf ~f t~e:' S~€fm!Jen~o M fitropolitan Fii'lt_;'Distfit( doe~ hereby
acknmfledge the exemplary ptibYfrl~ervice and dedication ofMiguel A. Guzman.
                                       \                                    V   \J .                             ··1             .
       NOW, THEREFORE,' BE it RESOL VED, _\the Board of Directo'rs of the
Sacramento Metrfijii!._litan Fire_District doefJiff~ by proclaim recognition and
remembrance ofMiguel A. Gu~k~J for1~is cpun~/~ss c1ontributions and the support
h e prov,'d. ec.lfior t,ze
                       ' F'ire service-r
                                   • f.t_and Pf',
                                              I bl"     Jr.I 1 1ded'1catmg
                                                  ip.'saJety·vy                • 42 m
                                                                        • S tatwn   • h.rs
honor.

     BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this foregoing Resolution No. 2023-XXX
was passed and adopted on the 28th day of September 2023, by the Sacramento
Metropolitan Fire District Board ofDirectors.




                                                                                D 'Elman Clark, Board President



                                                                                Marni Rittburg, Board Clerk
                                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l             I

                                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~o,~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief



       DATE:                     September 28, 2023

       TO:                       Board of Directors

       SUBJECT:                  Response to County of Sacramento Request for Proposals 067


                                                 TOPIC
       Approval requested to submit a response to County of Sacramento Request for Proposals 067
       to provide opioid remediation activities.

                                                  BACKGROUND
       On August 22, 2023, the Sacramento County (County) Department of Health Services Division
       of Behavioral Health Services issued Request for Proposals (RFP) 067 for opioid remediation
       activities. The County is seeking qualified organizations interested in developing and
       implementing opioid remediation activities. The County intends to award one-time funding for
       these activities with the possibility of continuation of the program based on availability of funding
       in subsequent fiscal years.

                                                 DISCUSSION
       The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's Mobile Integrated Health (MIH) program is ideally
       suited to provide the services requested by the County. The District meets all the required
       qualifications requested in the RFP and believes that partnering with the County to provide
       these services supports the mission of the District, the MIH program, and would greatly benefit
       the community. If the district is successful in its proposal and is selected by the County at the
       conclusion of the RFP process, a contract to provide the services would be negotiated with the
       County and brought back to the Board for its consideration and approval. As part of the
       submittal process, the District is required to submit a resolution from its Board of Directors in
       support of its response to the RFP.

                                                FISCAL IMPACT
       There is no fiscal impact for submitting a proposal for in response to the RFP. Any fiscal impact
       resulting from a future contract would be brought back to the Board for consideration at a later
       date.

                                           RECOMMENDATION
       Staff recommends that the Board adopt a resolution to authorize the Fire Chief or his designee
       to submit a response to County of Sacramento RFP 067 Opioid Remediation Activities.

       Submitted by:                                                    Approved by:

       Scott ~       Sep 26,   202317:◄3
       Scott Perryman, Battalion Chief
                                           PDT)                         £        (S•p 26, 2023 17:42 PDT)

                                                                        Tyler Wagaman, Deputy Chief
       MIH Program Coordinator                                          Support Services



                                                  Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief

                               RESOLUTION NO. 2023-XXX

    A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
  AUTHORIZING SUBMISSION OF A RESPONSE TO COUNTY OF SACRAMENTO
                 REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP) 067

          WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political subdivision
  of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant to the State
  constitution and laws; and

         WHEREAS, on August 22, 2023, the Sacramento County ("County") Department of Health
  Services Division of Behavioral Health Services issued Request for Proposals 067 for Opioid
  Remediation Activities ("RFP"); and

        WHEREAS, the District is qualified and desires to provide the services requested in the
  RFP; and

         WHEREAS, a resolution from the Board of Directors is required by the County in order to
  submit a proposal in response to the RFP.

         NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the Sacramento
  Metropolitan Fire District does hereby authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to submit a
  proposal in response to County of Sacramento RFP 067 Opioid Remediation Activities.

        PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 28th day of SEPTEMBER, 2023. I, MARNI
  RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT HEREBY
  CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting of the
  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

  AYES:
  NOES:
  ABSENT:
  ABSTAIN:

                                        SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                        By: - - - - - - - -- - - -- -
                                           President, Board of Directors

  ATTEST:


  Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
  Clerk of the Board



                               Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
