                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I

                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (91 6) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~•;*
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief
                                   ADOPTED
                   ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING
                               BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                      SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                            Thursday, September 28, 2023
                            Held at the following locations:
                                    Fire Station 111
                                      Engine Bay
                                16609 Rio Linda Blvd.
                                 Rio Linda, California
                                            &
                                  Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:02 pm by President Clark. Board members present:
  Clark, Jones, Saylors, Sheetz, Webber and Wood . Board members absent: Costa, Goold,
  and Rice. Staff present: Chief House, and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  Public comment was received .

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by members
  present to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.     Action Summary Minutes
         Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
         Board Meeting of August 10, 2023.
         Action: Approved the Action Summary Minutes
  2.     Adopt Resolution - Reimbursement For Tax Exempt Debt
         Recommendation: Staff recommends adoption of the reimbursement Resolution .
         Action: Adopted Resolution 2023w059 declaring the official intent of the District
         to reimburse itself for certain capital and other expenditures from the proceeds
         of proposed indebtedness.

  3.     Purchase of Motorola 800 MHz Radios
         Recommendation: Approve the Communications Division to purchase new
         Motorola 800 MHz Radio Equipment from Motorola Solutions Inc. at a total cost
         not to exceed the budgeted amount of $147,000.
      Action: Approved the purchase of new Motorola 800 MHz Radio Equipment
      from Motorola Solutions Inc. at a total cost not to exceed the budgeted amount
      of $147,000.

4.    Adopt Resolution - Temporary License Agreement - Sandbag Filling Station
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the Fire Chief or his designee to
      execute and administer an agreement with the County of Sacramento materially similar
      to the Temporary License Agreement attached.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-060 authorizing the Fire Chief or his designee to
      execute and administer an agreement with the County of Sacramento materially similar
      to the Temporary License Agreement attached.

5.    Engineer Kyle E. Rutherford Station 42 Dedication
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution dedicating Station 42 in memory of
      Engineer Kyle E. Rutherford.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-061 dedicating Station 42 in memory of
      Engineer Kyle E. Rutherford.

6.    Captain Miguel (Mike) A. Guzman Sr. Station 42 Dedication
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution dedicating Station 42 in memory of
      Captain Miguel (Mike) A. Guzman Sr.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-062 dedicating Station 42 in memory of
      Captain Miguel (Mike) A. Guzman Sr.

7.    Adopt Resolution - Response to County of Sacramento Request for
      Proposals 067
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution to authorize the Fire Chief or his
      designee to submit a response to County of Sacramento RFP 067 Opioid
      Remediation Activities.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2023-058 authorizing the Fire Chief or his
      designee to submit a response to County of Sacramento RFP 067 Opioid
      Remediation Activities.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.    Battalion 5 Water Tender Deployment
      (Chief Development Officer Jeff Frye & Assistant Chief Joe Fiorica)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation.
      Action: Presentation received.
      Public Comment was received from community member Richard Glover.

Director Goold arrived at 6: 15 p.m.

REPORTS

1.     PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Clark)
       No Report
9.28.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 2 of 9
2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Interim Chief Haverty)

1. Members
    a. It is with much sadness that I inform you of the passing of:

            i. Retired Captain James Stewart. Captain Stewart began his fire service career
               with the Arcade Fire Department in the 1960s and retired from the American
               River Fire Protection District in 1995. Services for Captain Stewart will be held
               on Friday, October 27, at Holy Trinity Parish located at 3111 Country Club
               Drive, El Dorado Hills, 95762, at 11 :00 a.m.

            ii. Retired Chief Ronny J. Coleman, State Fire Marshal, passed away peacefully
                on September 19, 2023, at Mercy General Hospital in Sacramento. Chief
                Coleman was a 50-plus-year fire service veteran, has authored more than 19
                books, and was influential within our industry as an advisor, leader, and
                mentor. No service information is available at this time other than it will take
                place in San Clemente.

              Please keep the Stewart and Coleman families in your thoughts.

     b. Congratulations to the following members for being selected to join the US&R CA
        Taskforce Team effective September 20:
                • Engineer Jason Baldwin
                • Firefighter Matthew Dargan
                • Captain Brendan Hogan
                • Firefighter Alexander Pibl
                • Firefighter Christopher Upchurch

     c. LODD Station Dedication, Station 42
           Earlier today, the District was honored to hold a station dedication at Station 42
           for Captain Miguel "Mike" Arthur Guzman and Engineer Kyle Edward
           Rutherford. Plaques were installed at the station for both members and will
           serve as a constant memorial to honor the ultimate sacrifice for their dedication
           to duty and loyalty to the citizens they served. The significance of the
           contributions made by Mike and Kyle cannot be minimized, and while they will
           be dearly missed, their legacy lives on in the spirit of those who continue to
           serve.

              Thank you to all the members who helped organize this important event and to
              the family, friends, and current and retired members who attended.

2. Recruitment(s)
    a. The District is accepting:
           i. applications (external) for the position of Office Technician with a final filing
              date of October 13 by 4 PM

9.28.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 3 of 9
3. Miscellaneous & Meetings
         a. My meetings with the membership (45-day meeting goal) are coming to an end .
            I have met with the majority of members, with only two makeup meetings
            remaining.

          b. Labor Management Collaboration Meeting on the 20th was very productive. We
             covered numerous topics, resolved several items, and provided feedback and
             direction for others. Great conversation and collaboration among all attendees.

          c. Capital Air Show
             Being present throughout the weekend at this year's Capital Air Show was an
             honor. The Air Show provided endless fun and activities for all attendees, and
             Metro Fire was well-represented throughout the weekend. This is only possible
             due to the dedication and support of our members at the event and behind the
             scenes - thank you to everyone who had a hand in making this year's event
             successful - I know there are many of you.

          d. I continue to meet with our external stakeholders and participated in several
             "meet-and-greets" since the last board meeting:
                 • Fire Chief Maurice Johnson, El Dorado Hills Fire Department
                 • The Niello Company
                 • Fire Chief Brian Marshall, CalOES
                 • EMS Medical Director Gregory Kann
             These meetings continue to go well, and we all share an interest in being
             collaborative partners when discussing matters of mutual interest.

OPERATIONS REPORT (Deputy Chief Adam Mitchel~

1. CA Capital Airshow

   •   Record attendance of 105,000 over two days
   •   What does it take to provide public safety at the airshow?
       o A team of 30 per day from SMFD, in addition to 11 members from Sac County
         Airports FD and 130+ from SSO.
          ■   Metro suppression: 8 members
          ■   Metro EMS: 7 members
          ■   Metro CERT: 20 members (363 hours volunteered)
          ■   Metro Logs: 3 members
          ■   ICP: 8 SSO reps and 1 SRFECC dispatcher
   •   In addition, Captain Tim White led a comprehensive recruitment for FF, MMP, Reserve
       FF, and CERT supported by 4 suppression members, 3 Reserve FFs, and our
       Explorers from Del Campo HS.


9.28.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 4 of 9
2. SSD Critical Incident Management Training

   Twenty-three (23) members from Metro Fire participated in a Critical Incident
   Management training class hosted by Sac County Sheriff. The class provided us with
   great insight as to how critical law enforcement incidents are managed and how we can
   best integrate into their incident management system. BC Daly assisted as an instructor
   and was able to present information to our law enforcement partners on how we operate
   on our incidents. This was a great opportunity to strengthen our already solid relationship
   with the Sheriff's Department.

3. MIH Incident Presentation (BC Perryman)

   DC Mitchell introduced BC Perryman who played a voice message from a thankful
   wheelchair bound couple in the Antelope area. The MIH team , Chief Aldrich, Captain
   Crawford and many others moved them to a bottom floor apartment.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT (CFO Dave O'Too/e)

PUBLIC AFFAIRS:

   •   We had a station dedication for Captain Guzman and Engineer Rutherford at Station
       42 this morning. Thank you to logistics, the honor guard , Captain Nunez, Chaplain
       Snider, Local 522, and everyone that made it a success.

   •   The Cancer Awareness Engine will be arriving on October 1 and traveling through all 5
       Battalions as a front-line engine to bring awareness and early detection reminders to
       our community. Thank you to our sponsors; the Sacramento Kings, the cities of
       Rancho Cordova and Citrus Heights, our Firefighters Association, and Local 522.

   •   There will be a promotion ceremony scheduled for Tuesday, October 3 at
       headquarters starting at 5:30. 22 people will be recognized and promoted that
       evening.

   •   The California Firefighters Foundation Memorial is happening Saturday, October 14.
       Attendees will stage at 3pm at the Sheraton Hotel downtown. This year we will be
       adding Captain Jeffrey Vitti and Engineer Kyle Rutherford to the wall. Public Affairs
       asks that everyone come out and show your support. We plan to have a significant
       Metro Fire presence.

   •   A Transfer of Command Ceremony for Fire Chief House is scheduled at the Cordova
       High School Performing Arts studio on October 24 at 5:30. We hope to have a huge
       turnout to support Fire Chief House and Metro Fire as we honor this transition.




9.28.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 5 of 9
HUMAN RESOURCES:

HR is still meeting weekly with the new Third-Party Administrator transition team for the
Workers' Compensation Contract. Progress is going as projected. The go-live date is
anticipated for November 1.

An update on candidates in backgrounds
   1. 5 Paramedics are in backgrounds for the October 9, 2023 MMP Academy.
   2. 12 external AND 8 internal FF Paramedics are in backgrounds for the January 16,
      2024 Academy.
   3. HR also has 1 Fire Mechanic and 1 MIH provider in backgrounds.

Recruitments:
   1. Paramedic recruitment closes tomorrow, September 29. Interviews are prescheduled
      for October 5, 12, and 19.
  2. Data Analyst closes on October 13

Additionally, these policies are expected to reach the Policy Committee next couple of
months:
   • Drug and Alcohol Policy (currently working with LCW)
   • EEO Policy
   • Harassment Policy
   • Workplace Violence Policy
   • Non-Discrimination Policy
   • Non-Retaliation Policy
   • Sick Leave Policy
   • FMLA Policy
   • Timecard Policy
   • Travel and Conference Policy

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT:

•   Metro Fire was asked by CSDA to participate in their annual Special Districts Tour, which
    occurred on Tuesday and Wednesday this week. The tour consisted of visits to six
    special districts throughout the Bay Area.

•   The 27-member traveling delegation is comprised of staffers from the California
    Legislature, the Legislative Analysts Office, the Senate Committee on Government and
    Finance, and special district associations.

•   Metro Fire is the only special district who is traveling with the delegation, which is
    considered an honor for our district and fantastic opportunity for us to continue realizing
    the Board objective of increased external engagement. Kyle Macdonald is representing us
    on the tour and he's been asked to address the entire delegation and field questions
    about special districts from the participants.


9.28.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 6 of 9
•   Follow up touch-ins will be completed later this week.

•   This tour has allowed Metro Fire to enhance our presence not just among our special
    districts partners, but also with the state legislature and policy professionals, solidifying
    our status as a go-to resource within the Fire Service.

FINANCE

•   After wrapping up the Final Budget and CIP Plan, Finance submitted excellence award
    applications this week for two budget awards, one state and one national, and a state
    award for the CIP. We should know about those in the Spring of 2024.

•   Our annual audit is progressing well with our new third-party auditor. Board members
    should have or soon will receive a risk questionnaire from Badawi and Associates seeking
    information that will help them identify fraud risks, not the existence of risk itself. The
    audit will be completed in December.

•   Finance is working on changes to the meal and refreshment policy, and the travel and
    conference policy, and expects to bring those to the Board in November.

•   Finally, there was a recent addition to the Finance Family. Accounting Specialist Milton
    Mora and his wife Yvette welcomed their second son Andres Gabriel Mora-Gomez on
    September 7. Baby and family are doing well.

SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT (Deputy Chief Tyler Wagaman)
Facilities:
   • Kitchens at Stations 108 and 105 will be finalized next week.
   • Station 42 beautification , my hat goes off to the three crews and facilities team that
       worked tirelessly to beautify that station.
   • With rain on the approach, Roofs at these five stations will be replaced: Stations 103,
        108, 29, 114 and Hurley.
   • With winter approaching , we will be looking at our back-up emergency generators at
       all stations to make sure we are ready for storms that may knock out the power.
Fleet:
   • Two ambulances will be going into service very soon, Medic 41 and Medic 61 will be
       getting those new ambulances.

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Firefighter Michael Gildone for Vice
    President Matt Cole)

Labor/management
   • 8 hours
   • lots of great discussion from both sides -appreciate new leadership


9.28.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 7 of 9
CPF district 3&4
  • Many local leaders
  • CJAC Paramedic Program

Tuesday 9/26 squad meeting
  • Great discussion
  • Moving out of a pilot program
  • Change in deployment

Wednesday E-Board
  • Firefighter memorial 10/14
  • Eng. Rutherford
  • Capt. Vitti

4.     COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
       All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
       10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

       A.      Executive Committee - (President Clark)
               Next Meeting: TBD
                No Report.

       8.      Communications Center JPA - (AC Greene)

       The Communications Center JPA Board met on September 26 for its Regular Board
       meeting and took the following actions:

       •    Approved the contract and subsequent implementation of Delphini Intelligence
            software.

       •    Approved the expenditure, not exceeding $80,000 for the purchase and installation
            of an 8' steel fence encompassing the Center parking lot.

      The Communications Center JPA Board will meet next on October 10, 2023 for its
      regularly scheduled meeting at SMFD's Boardroom.

       C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
                Next Meeting: October 26, 2023 at 5:00 PM
               Today's meeting was cancelled, no report.

       D.      Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
               Next Meeting: October 12, 2023

               No Report.



9.28.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                        Page 8 of 9
    BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

    Director Jones thanked the hosts at Station 111 for opening their door and gates tonight.
    Director Jones thanked citizen Mr. Glover for his comments tonight. Thanked BC Perryman
    with MIH and all the volunteers for stepping up and all those that step up every day. I want to
    posthumously thank James Stewart for his guidance, knowledge and kindness and I want to
    express my deepest condolences to his family.

    Director Saylors thanked Reserves Mark Siebert and Tim White for coming to the Country
    Fair and for always showing up for this community. Director Saylors expressed thanks for
    having the Board meeting in her District #1.

    Director Webber thanked staff for their reports tonight.

    Director Wood thanked Board Clerk Marni Rittburg, Art Hong and the IT department, and
    Logistics for all the extra work to have this Board meeting off-site at Station 111. Director
    Wood stated the Firefighters Burn Institute 50 Year Celebration will take place on Friday,
    October 20th at 7 p.m. at The Elks Tower in Sacramento to celebrate 50 years of supporting
    the burn community.

    Director Sheetz thanked the crews at Station 111 for their hospitality this evening.

    Director Goold congratulated Chief House as he wasn't present when he was installed as
    Fire Chief.

    President Clark thanked Assistant Chief Chris Greene for the great day at the Capital
    Airshow and for including me in the meeting, it was a wonderful day and show. He thanked
    the men and women of Metro Fire and Chief House for his great leadership.

    A moment of silence was held for Retired Captain James Stewart and Retired Chief Ronny J.
    Coleman.

    To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
    channel:
    https://metrofire.ca.gov/2023-09-28-board-meeting
    https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

    ADJOURNMENT

    The meeting was adjourned at 7:05p.m .


~                      sident                           Ted Wood, Secretary




    9.28.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 9 of 9
