Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.***REVISED***
Tuesday, November 12, 2024

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Brown called the regular meeting to order at 6:32 p.m. Other Board members
present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Heather Davis, Harold Fong, Paul Keefer (arrived
at 6:55 p.m. via Zoom), Bina Lefkovitz (via Zoom), and Vanessa Caigoy. SCOE
Appointed Board Member Representing Students Judith Marquez was present.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Dr.
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer, Assistant Superintendents Michael Kast, Channa
Pitt, and Jacqueline “Jackie” White; Executive Directors Xanthi Soriano and Jerry
Jones; Director Shanine Coats; Human Resources Chief Administrator Darrien Slider-
Johnson, and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Davis led the Pledge of Allegiance. President Brown read the Land
Acknowledgement.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

There were four public comments.

Elverta Joint Elementary School District Superintendent Mike Wells expressed
appreciation for the support SCOE provides to his district.

Janine Cooper, (via Zoom) Childcare Project Manager for the City of Sacramento,
commented about their apprenticeship model.

Kelly Mackey (via Zoom) Director of Strategic Partnerships for the State of California's
Apprenticeship and Workforce Innovation and Martin Ross, Deputy Director of External
Affairs, Partnerships & Workforce Development at the Health Education Council




11.12.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             1
commented in support of National Apprenticeship Week taking place November 17-23,
2024.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no reports from employee organizations.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of September 24, 2024

Motion to approve by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy
Not Present at Vote: Keefer

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Adoption of Agenda

Motion to approve the adoption of the agenda as presented by Trustee Fong, second by
Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy
Not Present at Vote: Keefer

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Youth Report

A. Improve Your Tomorrow - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent Jackie White introduced the presentation from Improve Your
Tomorrow.

Jaleel Baker from Improve Your Tomorrow introduced Jaylen Joyce, 19, Sophomore at
Sacramento State University, California and Juan Pablo Reyes, 17, Senior at Valley
High School in the Elk Grove Unified School District.

7. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report



11.12.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        2
Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

On October 26, we honored our Sacramento Classified School Employees for 2024 and
our new 2025 Teachers of the Year at the Sacramento Republic FC soccer game at the
Heart Health stadium. Thank you Trustee Caigoy for attending.

On October 28, Superintendent Gordon joined a classroom tour and then attended the
presentation of the State of CA Civic Learning Award of Excellence to our very own NP3
Charter School in Natomas. California Chief Justice Patricia Guerrero presented the
award, and Senator Angelique Ashby and Assemblymember Kevin McCarty were also
in attendance.

On November 7, several of us visited our Sly Park Environmental Education Center to
learn more about the exciting programs the team provides. It was a pleasure to tour the
campus with Director Jeremy Meyers and Teacher-in-Charge Suzanne White and to
see the physical and program improvements they have made. Thank you, President
Brown and Trustees Caigoy, Davis, Fong, Lefkovitz, and SCOE Appointed Board
Member Representing Students Marquez for attending.

On November 7, we hosted our second Sacramento County READS Community of
Practice for this school year featuring Dr. Terrie Noland focused on leadership. Thank
you, Assistant Superintendent Channa Pitt and your team, for leading this effort.

On November 8, SCOE hosted education leaders from 22 countries as part of the U.S.
Department of State’s International Visitor Leadership Program. The visit, titled
“Education in the Digital Age II,” was focused on advancing technology in education.
Thank you, Assistant Superintendent White and your team for working in partnership
with the group. Delegates met with SCOE leaders, participated in presentations, and
held a lively discussion on best practices in digital learning and educational technology.

As SCOE teams prepare for upcoming conferences, the CalHOPE team recently
learned that three papers and/or sessions were accepted for the American Educational
Research Association Annual Meeting taking place in Denver in April 2025.

On November 14, in honor of National Native American Heritage Month, the College
and Career Team will host our first Mentor MIX of the year. A panel of leaders from the
Sacramento Native American community will share their experiences as they relate to
the intersection and impact of the Arts and Mentoring on our youth. The MIX begins at
5:30 pm at the WINN Center at Cosumnes River College.

On December 11, SCOE is hosting a Winter Celebration themed, “A Celebration of
Lights” in the Board Room at the David P. Meaney Educational Center. We will have
refreshments and fun activities at this event.

We received the sad news that former SCOE Superintendent David P. Meaney passed




11.12.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            3
away on November 5. An article is posted on our website with information about his
service in Public Education and the services that will be held to remember him.

B. Recognition of the December 2024 Employees of the Month - Xanthi Soriano

Kayci Bath, Senior Personnel Technician, was recognized and honored as December
2024 Classified Employee of the Month.

Lisa Saenz, Teacher with Student Programs - CARE, was recognized and honored as
December 2024 Certificated Employee of the Month. (Ms. Saenz was not present to
receive her award.)

8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Corona
Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White/
Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendent Michael Kast announced that 21 students will be awarded
diplomas, including four candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School, seven
candidates from Cordova Lane Senior Extension, one candidate from El Centro Jr./Sr.
High School, four candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension, and five
candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

9. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve contracts as presented by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget -
David W. Gordon



11.12.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         4
Motion to approve authorization to submit grant applications/service contracts and
accept funding if awarded; and approval of contracts, positions, and other expenditures
associated with the grants as outlined in the proposed budget by Trustee Corona
Sabeniano, second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

A. K12 Strong Workforce Program - Career Education & Exploration Grant - Jacqueline
White

B. K12 Strong Workforce Program Round 7: Reimagining Information and
Communication Technologies (ICT) Pathways - Jacqueline White

11. New Business - Other

A. 2023-2024 Annual Report of Sacramento County Williams Review - Elizabeth Linton

The 2023-2024 Annual Report of Sacramento County Williams Review is an
informational item. No Board action is required.

B. Board Report - Regional Dropout Landscape Overview - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent White presented our Regional Dropout Landscape Overview.
Also, in attendance as presenters were Megan Simmons, Executive Director,
Secondary Schools from Twin Rivers Unified School District and Chad Sweitzer,
Assistant Superintendent of Schools, Secondary Education from Elk Grove Unified
School District.

The following three individuals made public comments regarding the dropout crisis and
the Miracle University program: Ramona Landeros, Sharon Thurmond (member of
Natomas Black Parents United), and Mastora Matin (a Miracle University program
participant).

There was a final public comment from Usama Khalil, Founder and CEO of Refugee
Enrichment and Development Association in Sacramento, a nonprofit for refugee
assistance regarding the needs of refugee students and requesting support of his
program.

C. Board Report - 2024 California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress
(CAASPP) Sacramento County and Districts - Dr. Channa Pitt

Assistant Superintendent Pitt introduced our report on the California Assessment of
Student Performance and Progress Test Results. Dr. Amber Jacobo, Director,
Continuous Improvement and Support, and Tami Wilson, Director II, English Language
Arts presented the report.



11.12.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            5
12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Lefkovitz stated that it is National Apprenticeship Week and was glad public
commenters were present to promote it. Trustee Lefkovitz expressed interest in another
Board retreat. She also reported that the Literacy Coalition is planning to take the
literacy resolution into the 13 school districts and has invited Board members to join
them. Trustee Lefkovitz asked about plans to protect our undocumented and immigrant
students and LGBTQ students.

Trustee Fong expressed appreciation for the success story presented by the district
representative. He stated that he attended the Sly Park site visit and was pleased to see
the improvements made there. He requested more information about the Improve Your
Tomorrow program. He suggested that staff provide a Williams Review presentation at
a future Board meeting. He highlighted the following two events: the California School
Boards Association (CSBA) and the Association of California School Administrators
(ACSA) Coast2Coast Federal Advocacy Trip in Washington, DC in April 2025 and the
National School Board Association (NSBA) Conference for Public School Leaders in
Atlanta, Georgia, also in April 2025.

Trustee Davis expressed interest in another Board retreat. She commented about the
holiday donation opportunities and highlighted the Book Drive for El Centro stating that
she asked her children to honor her birthday by purchasing a book for the students at El
Centro.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano expressed interest in another Board retreat and supports
protecting undocumented and immigrant and LGBTQ students to the extent that we can
in light of the new administration.

Trustee Caigoy stated that she enjoyed the Sly Park visit. Trustee Caigoy suggested
that the previously adopted literacy resolution be revised to include the lowest
performing subgroups. Regarding the Landscape Analysis report presented tonight, she
questioned what SCOE is doing to ensure that our districts know about the work SCOE
is doing and how best practices are shared to allow sufficient time to make changes in
staffing if needed. She requested that a resolution be drafted to demonstrate SCOE’s
support of Black Students in Sacramento County. She also shared sentiments to honor
Ollie Watson, her sorority sister and longtime educator in Sacramento who recently
passed. Trustee Caigoy expressed interest in another Board retreat.

Trustee Keefer - no report

SCOE Appointed Student Board Member Representing Students Marquez stated that
she and Charley Gilmore, co-facilitators of the Student Advisory, went on a field trip
downtown with students and hopes that they can do more of these types of events. She
expressed interest in another Board retreat.



11.12.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         6
B. Board President

President Brown stated there is a small committee that has formed to design a statue of
Nathaniel Colley that will likely be placed at the Federal Courthouse sometime in the
future. President Brown expressed interest in another Board retreat.

C. Committees

13. Items for Distribution

A. November Events and Site Visits

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. December 10, 2024 and January 14, 2025

15. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

President Brown requested a motion to adjourn the meeting in memory of Former
SCOE Superintendent David P. Meaney.

Motion to adjourn the meeting in memory of Former SCOE Superintendent David P.
Meaney by Trustee Caigoy, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

The meeting was adjourned at 9:07 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




11.12.24 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        7
