Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, March 18, 2025

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Brown called the regular meeting to order at 6:32 p.m.

Other Board members present: Harold Fong, Paul Keefer, Bina Lefkovitz, Mariana
Corona Sabeniano, Heather Davis, and Vanessa Caigoy. SCOE Appointed Board
Member Representing Students Judith Marquez was present.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Dr.
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendents Nicolas Schweizer and Brent Malicote; Assistant Superintendents
Channa Pitt, Michael Kast, and Jacqueline “Jackie” White; Executive Director Jerry
Jones; and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Corona Sabeniano led the Pledge of Allegiance.

President Brown read a Land Acknowledgement.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

The following individuals made public comments in support of Miracle University: Erica
Bailey, Dedrick Suggs, Nicole Springfield, Felicia Ladson, and Sharon Layne.

The following individuals made public comments to raise awareness about Transgender
Visibility Day and related issues: Sabrina Naves, Annamarie Smith, Nishanth V., and
Evan Minton (via Zoom).

B. Employee Organizations

There were no presentations from employee organizations.




03.18.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           1
3. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of February 4, 2025

Motion by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Keefer

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Adoption of Agenda

Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented by Trustee Fong, second by
Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

On March 12, in collaboration with the El Dorado County Office of Education (EDCOE),
SCOE held its 3rd of 3 Inclusion Academies focused on improving outcomes and
access for students with disabilities. Teams from our local districts joined our SCOE
Inclusive Practices Team and the state team from the Supporting Innovative Practices
Project at EDCOE to look at ways we can decrease ableism and increase inclusivity
and belonging for students with disabilities. This week, SCOE is hosting an internal
Inclusion Academy where SCOE departments will spend time and intentional focus on
ways to improve access and outcomes for students with disabilities.

On March 14, SCOE’s Prevention and Early Intervention Department, in partnership
with the Sacramento County Opioid Coalition, LC2 Productions, Sacramento County
Friday Night Live/Club Live, and the Sacramento Coalition for Youth, hosted a
community screening of “Fentanyl High" at The Guild Theater in Sacramento. The event
was well attended and provided an insightful look at Fentanyl’s devastating impact
through the eyes of high school students. Following the screening, a panel of experts,
students, and community leaders engaged in a discussion on fentanyl dangers,




03.18.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          2
prevention strategies, and available support services. Thank you, Vice President
Mariana Corona Sabeniano for attending.

Also on March 14, Jerry Jones, our Director of Technology, conducted a cybersecurity
“tabletop exercise” for technology staff in the Sacramento, Placer, and El Dorado
Counties. At the training, district staff worked together to determine how to handle a
simulated cyber incident and shared best practices. They also created a cyber incident
response plan using the California County Superintendents’ new Cyber Incident
Response Plan Template.

On March 15, Craig Irish and his team hosted Sacramento County History Day at CSU
Sacramento, an event that brought students, educators, and history enthusiasts
together to explore this year’s theme: “Rights and Responsibilities in History.” The
competition showcased impressive research and presentations from students across
the county, highlighting historical figures, movements, and events that have shaped our
world. The event concluded with an Awards Ceremony where top participants were
recognized for their outstanding work. Thank you, Trustee Corona Sabeniano, for
representing the Board and your support of this event.

On March 17, we recognized our 2025 Teachers of the Year at the Kings game with a
pre-game reception sponsored by Jamba Juice. Our two County Teachers of the Year,
Joshua Weeks, a 5th grade STEM teacher at Bell Avenue Elementary School in Robla
School District , and Marc Vankeuren, a high school physics and chemistry teacher from
Grant Union High School in Twin Rivers Unified, were invited by the Kings to serve as
“honorary Kings Co-Captains.” At half time, all our Teachers of the Year were
recognized and honored on the court. Thank you, Trustees Caigoy and Davis for
attending.

Our SCOE team and the Sacramento Literacy Foundation have been attending District
Board meetings to promote Sacramento READS and encourage districts to adopt
resolutions prioritizing evidence-based reading instruction. River Delta USD is the first
to adopt such a resolution. The Sacramento County READS initiative team is hosting
their last Community of Practice for this school year on March 27 at the SCOE
Conference Center. The focus is on "The Power of Partnership: Engaging Families and
Communities to Enhance Literacy Outcomes." This event will include a keynote by Dr.
Terica Butler and showcase successful collaborations between Local Education
Agencies and community organizations.

Also, for the Sacramento County READS Initiative, we’ve produced several videos
highlighting literacy leaders, educators, and district voices. The first Call to Action video
series launched with Elk Grove USD’s Kelly Hillier, followed by Building Strong
Foundations for Young Readers featuring San Juan USD’s Trisha Menne and District
Administrator Esterlyn Murray. A third video on community partnerships is in the works.
Our digital campaign (since mid-January) has reached 1.6M+ impressions with efforts to
expand the storytelling through interviews with educators, parents, and students, plus
new videos showcasing systemic literacy efforts in districts like Center Joint Unified and



03.18.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                              3
Sacramento City Unified.

Through Sac Metro Chamber's Cap-to-Cap program, SCOE is helping to advance three
policy papers emphasizing the importance of closing the gap on literacy. Other state
legislation that staff is tracking is Assembly Bill 1121 (Rubio), which aims to create a list
of effective literacy training programs.

Our Re-Entry Program in Yolo County is holding a graduation ceremony on March 19 at
the Community and Senior Center located at 2001 East Street in Woodland.

On March 25, SCOE is hosting a webinar for students, families, and community
members to provide information regarding immigration resources and enforcement
issues impacting students, families, and our schools.

On March 27, the Capitol Area Regional Transformational Assistance Center (R-TAC)
Community Schools team will host a Study Tour at Folsom Cordova Unified School
District. The study tour will be held at Mills Middle School in Rancho Cordova.
Participants will explore collaborative leadership and shared decision-making through a
simulation of a Coordination of Services Team for Tier 2 supports, strategies for building
a cohesive district-wide Community Schools team, and partnerships with organizations
like UC Davis Medical Center and refugee support groups to better understand and
meet students' and families' needs.

On April 1, at the Sofia Theater in Sacramento, SCOE is hosting a screening of the
documentary Hopeville: How to Win the Reading Wars. This thought-provoking film
explores the pressing issues surrounding literacy, education, and the efforts to address
the reading challenges that students face today. It offers an in-depth look at the reading
crisis in American schools and solutions and strategies to improve literacy outcomes.
The screening will be followed by a discussion with educators, policymakers, and
experts who are working to make lasting change.

Assistant Superintendent Jackie White and her team invite you to their 2025 Counselor
Spring Institute on April 2-3, 2025, at CSU, Sacramento. This event is designed for
counselors looking to expand their knowledge, connect with peers, and gain valuable
insights to support student success.

On April 12, SCOE will host an annual Sacramento County teacher and school leader
career fair with all 13 school districts, several charters, and a few neighboring districts
outside of Sacramento County. The event will be held at SCOE in the David P. Meaney
Education Center.

B. LGBTQIA+/Transgender Visibility Day Presentation - Shanine Coats

Director Shanine Coats introduced this item and Sarah Weber, Harm Reduction
Community Organizer at the Sacramento LGBT Community Center, presented
information regarding transgender visibility day.



03.18.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                                4
7. Charter Report

A. Fortune School of Education Annual Oversight Report - Dr. Nancy Herota/Nick
   Schweizer

There was a public comment from Ree Bean in support of Fortune School of Education.

Deputy Superintendent Dr. Nancy Herota, Charter Monitor Dr. Shela Seaton, and
Associate Superintendent Nick Schweizer presented SCOE’s Annual Oversight Report.

Dr. Fortune, President/CEO of Fortune School of Education presented the Fortune
report with other members of the Fortune staff including: Dominic Zarecki, Director of
Data, Analytics, and Strategy; Wesley Pepper, Chief Academic Officer; Joseph
Gambino, Director of Education Technology; Derek Swafford, Athletic Director; Stefon
Dubose, Director of Visual and Performing Arts; and community partners: Terry Moore,
Center for Fathers and Families (Life Skills 911); and John Taylor and Robert Brothers
from Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity (Kindergarten Reading Initiative).

8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
White/Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendent White announced that three students are scheduled to
graduate from each of their respective schools and they have completed all
requirements for high school graduation: two candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High and
one candidate from North Area Senior Extension.

9. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve contracts as presented by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy




03.18.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           5
10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget -
David W. Gordon

Motion to approve authorization to submit grant applications/service contracts and
accept funding if awarded; and approval of contracts, positions, and other expenditures
associated with the grants as outlined in the proposed budget by Trustee Davis, second
by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

A. TEACH California Grant Renewal - Jerry Jones

B. California Community Schools Partnership Program (CCSPP) State Technical
   Assistance Center (S-TAC) - Dr. Channa Pitt

C. Books for Brighter Futures - Dr. Channa Pitt

11. New Business - Other

A. Approval of the Second Interim Financial Report and Budget Revision No. 2 for
   2024-2025 - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Schweizer introduced Budget Committee Chair Heather
Davis to present these reports.

Motion to approve Trustee Caigoy, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Fong stated that SCOE has continued to hear from community members during
public comments in support of Miracle University. He requested that SCOE staff visit the
program and report back to the Board and consider ways to implement their strategies
or engage them as providers of after school programs or mentoring programs.

SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing Students Judith Marquez reported that
she attended the Narcotics Anonymous (NA) Hospitals and Institutions meeting and
sees a possible pathway to bringing the program to Juvenile Hall and will be discussing
this further with Assistant Superintendent White. She reported that Student Advisory



03.18.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         6
Committee members continue to share about the challenges they face, including
substance use and that drugs are too accessible to teens. Ms. Marquez stated that, as
her term comes to an end, it is her biggest goal to leave a clear pathway for youth to
continue to have communication with administration and other people who make
decisions for their schools and their education.

Trustee Davis stated that she is interested in learning more about Miracle University and
what motivates the public to come to the Board meetings to express their support. She
thanked Ms. Marquez for getting more information about NA and how to bring the
program to El Centro. She also thanked Trustee Lefkovitz for her work with ACCBE.

Trustee Caigoy thanked SCOE staff for putting the upcoming Immigration Webinar
together. She also expressed appreciation to the staff that presented at the California
Charter Schools Association Conference last week.

Trustee Keefer expressed appreciation for a great Board meeting. He talked about the
increased costs associated with Special Education and that it needs to be addressed.
He also reported that he recently learned more about "ableism" and the need to
individually meet the needs of all students regardless of their abilities. He also made
remarks about wanting to see literacy scores for students across Sacramento County
and expressed frustration at the inability to gauge progress. He stated that he would like
to see the data and theories in action. Trustee Keefer concluded his remarks by asking,
“What goal do we have as citizens who have been elected to actually achieve
something that is meaningful for our communities and our families?”

Trustee Lefkovitz handed out an article entitled "America Risks Losing a Whole
Generation of Kids." Ms. Lefkovitz expressed interest in learning more about Miracle
University’s strategies that could be implemented at SCOE Schools. She stated her
appreciation for the webinar on immigration. She also expressed her appreciation of
Mariana's question to Ms. Weber from the Sacramento LGBT Community Center
around what more could our Board and our County Office be doing around LGBTQ
youth and in support of their efforts. She stated that she was at an ACCBE meeting the
previous night and the focus was Career Technical Education and that it was exciting to
learn from other trustees about what they're doing around CTE, particularly in their
Court and Community Schools.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano commented that she is also interested in learning more
about Miracle University. She stated that she was moved by the Fentanyl High film and
would like SCOE students to have an opportunity to see it.

B. Board President

President Brown stated that, since 2001, he has been providing a free camp for kids
that have asthma and is excited that he already has twelve student nurses from CSU
Sacramento committed to volunteering to help this year. He also stated that pediatrician,
Dr. Anne Nguyen at UC Davis, who deals with allergies and asthma, wants to participate



03.18.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            7
and bring some of her kids that she treats. Additionally, he has received a grant and St.
Hope Academy is providing space for his group to meet each week.

Trustee Keefer asked Superintendent Gordon to review the viability of bringing Miracle
University on as a vendor.

C. Committees

13. Items for Distribution

A. March Events and Site Visits

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. April 4, 2025 and April 15, 2025

15. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to adjourn by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

Meeting adjourned at 9:24 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,


David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




03.18.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                              8
