                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702
~1;{#
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                                ADOPTED
                   ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                                 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                       SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                              Thursday, September 26, 2024
                              Held at the following locations:
                          10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                     Mather, California
                                              &
                                    Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm by President Goold. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold, Jones, Saylors, Sheetz, and Webber. Board members absent: Rice and
  Wood. Staff present: Deputy Chief Mitchell and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  One (1) public comment was received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Jones seconded by Clark and carried unanimously by members present to
  adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.      Action Summary Minutes
          Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
          of August 22, 2024.
          Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.      Purchase Approval - Motorola Portable Radios
          Recommendation: Allow the District to procure the APX 6000 Series Portable Radios
          from Motorola using H-GAC contract #RA05-21.
          Action: Approved purchase.

  3.      Adopt Resolution - Surplus Equipment
          Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving                 the    disposal    of the     District's
          Communications Division surplus equipment.
          Action: Adopted Resolution 2024-122.
4.      Temporary Construction Easement - 7995 Elwyn Ave. (Station 116)
        Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to execute the attached
        Temporary Construction Easement with Lennar Homes of Ca, LLC.
        Action: Approved.

ACTION ITEMS

1.      Adopt Resolutions - FY 2023 Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response
        Grant Award
        (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
        Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution accepting the FY23 SAFER Grant and
        authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to execute all required documents for the
        administration of the grant award. Staff further recommends that the Board adopt a
        budget amendment Resolution to add the funding into the District's FY 2024/25 Final
        Budget.
        Action: Adopted Resolution 2024-123 and Resolution 2024-124.
        Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by members
        present to adopt Resolution 2024-123 accepting FY2023 Staffing for Adequate Fire and
        Emergency Response Grant Program Award.

        Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by members
        present to adopt Resolution 2024-124 adopting a Budget Amendment to the Final
        Budget for Grants Fund 212G for the fiscal year 2024/25.

2.      Adopt Resolutions - FY 2023 Fire Prevention and Safety Grant Award
        (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
        Recommendation: Adopt the Resolution accepting the FY23 FP&S Grant, authorizing
        the Fire Chief or his designee to execute all required documents for the administration of
        the grant award, and amending the FY 2024/25 Position Authorization Document to
        reflect the added position. Staff further recommends that the Board adopt budget
        amendment Resolutions to add the funding into the District's FY 2024/25 Final Budget.

     A. Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by members
        present to adopt Resolution 2024-125 accepting a FY2023 Fire Prevention and Safety Grant
        Program Award.

     B. Moved by Director Sheetz, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by members present
        to adopt Resolution 2024-126 adopting a Budget Amendment to the Final Budget for General
        Fund 212A for the fiscal year 2024/25.

     C. Moved by Director Sheetz, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by members present
        to adopt Resolution 2024-127 adopting a Budget Amendment to the Final Budget for Grants
        Fund 212G for the fiscal year 2024/25.

REPORTS

1.    PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Goold)

      No Report




9.26.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 2 of 5
2.       FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -        (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

Good evening, President Goold, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public.

     •    Chief House is attending the Integrated Benefits Institute Conference and Board
          Health and Productivity Forum in Chicago, where he is joining Director/CPF President
          Brian Rice and members of Kaiser Permanente's Workforce Health and Cancer teams
          for a panel discussion about the impacts of cancer and achieving optimal outcomes in
          cancer care.

     •    This past week, several members attended the IAFF Fallen Fire Fighter Memorial
          ceremony in Colorado Springs, to honor 306 IAFF members who passed away or
          whose name was submitted between Jan. 1, 2023, and Dec. 31, 2023. Three of our
          very own were honored: Retired Engineer Christopher Anaya, Retired Captains Jeffrey
          Vitti and Robert (Bob) Bruce. It was an honor to be there.

     •    Yesterday morning, our members responded to a structure fire incident in B13. During
          the firefight, some members encountered a hostile fire environment. All members and
          civilians evacuated the building successfully, however two of our members received
          minor burns. I wanted to thank our crews for how they professionally handled the
          incident. I also wanted to thank our partners at the Firefighter Burn Institute (FFBI) and
          the UCO Burn Center for their extraordinary responsiveness and care for our members
          during this incident. I'm happy to report that both members were treated and released
          and will be following up with the Burn Center for further evaluation and treatment.

Upcoming Events:
  • To kick off Fire Prevention Week (October 6-12), Metro Fire in collaboration with
     CERT, Firefighter Burn Institute, UC Davis Health, American Red Cross, Kiwanis, and
     the City of Rancho Cordova will be hosting a Night at the Museum on Monday,
     October 7 from 4 pm to 6 pm. The event will be held at the Sacramento Children's
     Museum in Rancho Cordova and will offer interactive stations that include home
     escape planning and fire safety and prevention .

     •    Open House at Station 28 is scheduled for October 19 from 10-noon.

     •    Engineer Timothy Hall of the West Sacramento Fire Department passed away on
          September 23, 2024, in the line of duty during a training exercise. I would like to
          request a moment of silence in his honor before we adjourn this evening. Service
          details are pending.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Assistant Chief Keeley)

AC Keeley spoke of the 4th squad project charter he led, in collaboration with many different
divisions of Metro Fire. It was quickly determined it would be placed at Station 53 and we
were able to go from concept to implementation in 22 days. Their first call was for a childbirth
and they delivered a baby on scene and transported in with a Sac City medic unit.

Shift Commander Spotlight: E53's Captain Oshiro brought his crew and introduced them. He
spoke of his firsthand experience with the difference that the squad has made including
reducing the number of times that the city covers calls in 53's area, the improvement of


9.26.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                        Page 3 of 5
firefighting forces with two more Firefighters in the firehouse, the improved service delivery by
having more apparatus available for saving lives and serving the public.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Johnson)
No Report

SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Bailey)

No Report

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
     No Report

4.     COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
       All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
       10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.


       A.      Executive Committee - (President Goold)

                No Report

        B.     Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Bailey)
                •       The SRFECC JPA Board approved two action items on the last agenda,
                        the Live Scan Policy and the Budget Policy.

                 •      Our next meeting is scheduled for October 8, 2024, at 9:00 a .m., at
                        Metro HQ.

        C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
                 No Report

        D.       Policy Committee - (Director Saylors)

                 No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Saylors thanked Erin C for the wonderful job getting the grants. Shout out to Tim
White, Mark Siebert and the students at Del Campo High School for attending the Rio Linda
Elverta Country Faire. Also, on Sunday I attended the Sacramento Area Girls Fire Camp and
would like to give a shout out to April West for attending and helping out.
A Moment of Silence was observed for Engineer Timothy Hall of the West Sacramento Fire
Department.




9.26.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                        Page 4 of 5
CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to Closed Session at 6:32 p.m. on the following matters:

1.    PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION § 54956.9 (a) -
      ONE (1) MATTER OF WORKERS COMPENSATION COMPROMISE AND
      RELEASE:

      1.     Holly Wagner and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
             Claim# 4A21120CFYJ0001; 4A22055RYYL0001; 4A22020UAXH001 -
             Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
             Jessica Valenti of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

      Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Director Costa, and carried unanimously by
      members present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a
      settlement of the matter.

2.    Public Employee Performance Evaluation: Fire Chief
      Pursuant to Government Code Sections 54957(b)(1) and 54954.5(e)

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened to open session at 7: 10 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
the Board met in closed session on two matters: 1. Workers Compensation Claim of Holly
Wager, the Board voted unanimously to give authority to its third-party administrator to
effectuate a settlement in the matter. 2. Public employee performance evaluation of Fire
Chief, no reportable action was taken in closed session.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https ://metrofire.ca.gov/20 24-09-26-boa rd-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT




9.26.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                Page 5 of 5
