                                                                               REVISED


Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda – 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, August 12, 2025

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

Members present
Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis,
Alfred Brown, Vanessa Caigoy

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Corona Sabeniano called the regular meeting to order at 4:30 p.m. Other
Board members present were Dr. Alfred Brown, Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Heather
Davis, Harold Fong, and Vanessa Caigoy.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
General Counsel Teresa Stinson, Executive Director Jerry Jones, and Executive
Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Vice President Keefer led the Pledge of Allegiance.
President Corona Sabeniano read a Land Acknowledgement.

Open Session recessed at 4:32 p.m.
Closed Session opened at 4:40 p.m.
Closed Session recessed at 6:15p.m.
Reconvened Open Session at 6:36 p.m.

In addition to those present earlier, the following individuals were present when the
Board reconvened for Open Session: Dr. Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent;
Associate Superintendents Nicolas Schweizer and Brent Malicote; Assistant
Superintendents Channa Pitt, Michael Kast, and Jacqueline White; and Executive
Director Xanthi Soriano. SCOE Youth County Board Member Nairobi Dunbar was also
present at this time.

President Corona Sabeniano reported that the Board did not take any action in Closed
Session.

President Corona Sabeniano introduced Youth County Board Member Nairobi Dunbar.


08.12.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          1
                                                                                        REVISED


2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

The following individuals made public comments about CSEA contract negotiations:
Christina Alvarez, Ric Barreto, Chris Bennett, Rebecca Mayo, Fatima Garcia, Sean
Frame, Jim Melrose, Erica Lee, and Terryl Wheat (via Zoom).

B. Employee Organizations

Wendi Beatty, President, SCOE CSEA 480 made comments regarding negotiations.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of June 10, 2025

Motion to Approve by Trustee Caigoy, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to approve the adoption of the agenda as presented.

Motion by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Fong

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

It’s back to school season and the year is filling fast with many student activities,
professional development, and community engagement.

More than 300 SCOE school staff gathered at the Dante Event Center on August 4 to
launch the 2025–2026 school year. Assistant Superintendents Jackie White and Michael
Kast, and Superintendent Gordon welcomed educators from SCOE’s schools, student
programs, Foundations Academy, and special education programs from across
Sacramento County, celebrating their commitment to students who are often overlooked


08.12.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                              2
                                                                                  REVISED


and underserved. Highlighting four key initiatives—Black Student Landscape, Inclusion
for Students with Disabilities, Multilingual Learner, and Sacramento County READS—
we urged staff to make this year’s goal of Mission Possible real for every student. Our
challenge to each educator and staff member was “What will I do today to make Mission
Possible for a student who’s been told it isn’t?”

On August 13, SCOE and our partner, SchoolsFirst Federal Credit Union—who are
generously providing 400 backpacks filled with supplies—will host a Back-to-School
Backpack Donation Drive during Team Time.

Please mark your calendar for Thursday, August 21, for graduation at our Juvenile Court
School program at El Centro located in Sacramento.

On Friday, August 22, SCOE is hosting the Teachers of the Year Awards Banquet at the
Hilton Sacramento Arden West at 2200 Harvard Street. We will award the Elinor Lincoln
Hickey Award to two top-notch Teachers of the Year to represent all of Sacramento
County in the state Teacher of the Year competition.

For 2025-2026, we have scheduled a combination of Listening Sessions and School
Site visits designed to deepen our understanding of teaching and learning. Two of these
visits will be listening sessions. These sessions are safe, structured conversations
where students can share their experiences, concerns, and ideas. Our role is simply to
listen—without interruptions—so their voices can help shape future actions, policies,
and initiatives. The school site visits will focus on classroom and program observations.
The schedule will be forthcoming with the first session taking place on October 8.

On August 27, at the Sacramento Central Library, SCOE and United Way will launch
Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library in Sacramento County, giving every child from birth to
age five a free book in the mail each month. This program supports our Sacramento
County READS initiative, with a goal of enrolling 65,000 children in the first five years,
and it reflects our strong commitment to literacy, equity, and early learning. Board
members are welcomed, and our Board President will be speaking.

For Family Literacy Month, SCOE representatives will be in the community promoting
literacy at the Sacramento Latino Book & Family Festival on September 13 at Valley
High School. SCOE will also be at the Sacramento Literacy Festival on September 27 at
the Oak Park Farmers Market. Our Board President Corona Sabeniano will be speaking
at both events to reinforce our commitment to improving literacy for students in
Sacramento County.

B. Recognition of the September 2025 Employees of the Month - Xanthi Soriano

Essence Jeffery, Office Assistant, was honored and recognized as the September 2025
Classified Employee of the Month.




08.12.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           3
                                                                               REVISED


Lenee Johnson, School Nurse, was honored and recognized as the September 2025
Certificated Employee of the Month.

C. Friends of Sacramento Arts Recognition - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent White introduced Executive Director Allyson Cagley from
Friends of Sacramento Arts to share about their organization. Ms. Cagley invited Jane
Collier, Director of College and Career Readiness, who introduced Teaching Artist
Berenis Leonard. Berenis has served four of our larger districts through the Any Given
Child and Sacramento Healthy HeARTs programs. She currently works as a program
manager for Studio T Arts and through her engagement with SCOE in this role, she and
her team have impacted tens of thousands of youth in Sacramento County.

D. Recognition of SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing Students

Superintendent Gordon introduced Ms. Judith Marquez, the first SCOE Appointed Board
Member Representing Students. Ms. Marquez shared reflections on her experience
serving in this position.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White/Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendent Kast announced that the following 16 students will be
awarded a diploma: one candidate from Cordova Lane Senior Extension, one candidate
from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School, two candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior
Extension, 11 candidates from North Area Senior Extension, and one candidate from
Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School.

D. Approval of the 2025-2026 Consolidated Application Part 1 for Funding Categorical
Aid Programs for Juvenile Court and Community Schools - Jacqueline White

E. Declaration of Equipment Listed as Surplus Property and Authorization to Dispose of
Equipment Pursuant to Education Code - Jerry Jones

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer




08.12.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           4
                                                                                REVISED


A. Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to Approve by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget -
David W. Gordon

Trustee Fong made a motion to approve all grant items (9.B.-9.H.) except 9.A. - Youth
Mental Health First Aid and Bullying Prevention Program Training Grant; second by
Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

All grant items (9.B.-9.H.) except for grant item 9.A. were unanimously approved.

B. Friday Night Live/Club Live/Friday Night Live Mentoring Programs - Brent Malicote

C. Pedestrian and Bicycle Safety Program Grant - Brent Malicote

D. Prevention Coalition Grant - Brent Malicote

E. County Tobacco Use Prevention Education (TUPE) Technical Assistance Grant -
Brent Malicote

F. Geographic Lead Agency System within California’s Statewide System of Support -
Dr. Nancy Herota

G. Gates Foundation: County Office Math Adoption Network - Dr. Channa Pitt

H. California Community Schools Partnership Program Regional Transformational
Assistance Center - Dr. Channa Pitt

Motion by Trustee Caigoy to approve 9.A. - Youth Mental Health First Aid and Bullying
Prevention Program Training Grant, second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy
Abstain: Fong




08.12.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          5
                                                                                REVISED


A. Youth Mental Health First Aid and Bullying Prevention Program Training Grant -
   Brent Malicote

10. New Business - Other

A. NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING and Adoption of Resolution No. 25-12
   Determination of Textbooks and/or Instructional Materials Sufficiency Pursuant to
   Education Code Section 60119 for Juvenile Court Schools - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent White presented the adoption of Resolution No. 25-12
Determination of Textbooks and/or Instructional Materials Sufficiency Pursuant to
Education Code Section 60119 for Juvenile Court Schools.

Opened public hearing 7:44 p.m.

There were no public comments.

Closed Public Hearing 7:45 p.m.

Motion to adopt Resolution No. 25-12 Determination of Textbooks and/or Instructional
Materials Sufficiency Pursuant to Education Code Section 60119 for Juvenile Court
Schools by Trustee Caigoy, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

B. Board Report - Social Emotional Learning/CalHOPE - Brent Malicote

Associate Superintendent Brent Malicote introduced the Social Emotional
Learning/CalHOPE Board report which was presented by Director Mai Xi Lee.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Member Suggestions on Future Agenda Items ("Idea Log")

Trustee Lefkovitz requested an analysis of the impact on attendance if the transportation
barrier for students was removed and what the options are for student transportation, as
well as the feasibility of SCOE funding transportation for our students. She also requested
a staff report with short term strategies to address the dropout issue, particularly
families/students that spoke at SCOE Board meetings.

Trustee Fong requested to have the Superintendent present his end of year report at a
future meeting. He also requested a report on the possibility of hiring Miracle to help
address dropout issue and a report on the absentee rate data before and after the
Washington administration enforced immigration laws.

B. Board Members

08.12.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            6
                                                                                    REVISED


Trustee Caigoy - no report.

Trustee Dr. Brown shared his appreciation for the various events/programs that SCOE
has lead in the last year, such as, Back to School Night and the Culinary Café Opening
at Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School, Graduations at the Youth Detention Center, the
Gary K. Hart Resiliency Scholarship Committee, the Sly Park Site Visit and recent
kitchen improvements there, as well as the on-site clothes closet, Court and Community
Schools and Senior Extension programs, Golden Bell Award for Mental Health
Clinicians program, Academic Decathlon, Colley High School listening session,
Sacramento County School Boards Association dinner meeting, Sly Park Regional
award at the Rocklin Event Center, Yolo Day Center Graduation in Woodland, meetings
with Doris Matsui and Ami Bera, Fellows Program, Schools as Centers of Wellness,
Recognition of Teachers and Staff of the Year at public events, the Seal of Biliteracy at
Cordova High School, SCOE Leadership Institute, the SEL Summit and Wellness
Conference at Safe Credit Union Convention Center, SCOE Employee Recognition at
the Scottish Rite Masonic Center, and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion efforts. Dr. Brown
stated that he speaks from his experiences over the past year on the Board about the
accomplishments of SCOE, and that he is extremely proud of these accomplishments
even though there are ways to make improvement. He stated that SCOE is an
organization on the right track with the leader and staff to make life better for the
students in our care in Community Schools as well as incarcerated students during their
stay with schooling. There are many services that we provide from infancy to creating
Schools as Centers of Wellness with appropriate counselors. He reported that these
accomplishments make him proud and he thanked Superintendent Gordon.

Trustee Lefkovitz welcomed Nairobi Dunbar to the Board and shared the CCBE Trustee
Handbook with her. She also provided an ACCBE update stating that the group has 32
members now. Upcoming ACCBE events include a retreat; and various trainings on
topics, such as superintendent salary setting, board retreats, board schedules, and
board self-evaluation. She reported that there is an upcoming three-part training session
on Court and Community Schools: an overview of court & community schools, best
practices for the court and committee schools around literacy, working with kids with
disabilities, around career tech, education and mental health, and students sharing their
experience and a group of advocates sharing their recommendations for improvements.
There will also be a student board member networking activity on October 4.

Trustee Brown stated that about 40 kids attended and 18 student nurses from Sac State
and a pediatrician from UC Davis volunteered at his asthma camp this summer. He also
reported that he met with the President at Sac State and there is a plan to install a
statue of Nathaniel Colley on the Sac State campus.

Trustee Keefer thanked staff for the seamless transition for the new Student Board
Member and for tonight’s SEL presentation.

Trustee Fong stated that he went to Vancouver BC for five days and found it to be a
relaxing trip and it also allowed him an opportunity to pay respect to his sister-in-law. He
also stated that what's happening in DC is disheartening and that it is no longer only
affecting the undocumented Hispanic community. It's also carrying over to a lot of
08.12.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             7
                                                                            REVISED


uninformed Southeast Asian communities.

Youth County Board Member Nairobi Dunbar thanked the Board and staff for their
welcome and looks forward to serving with the Board.

C. Board President

President Corona Sabeniano stated that she will be working on committee assignments
and invited the Board to contact her if they wish to be on a particular committee.

D. Committees

12. Items for Distribution

A. August Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. September 2, 2025 Regular Board Meeting at 6:30 p.m.

B. September 16, 2025 Regular Board Meeting at 6:30 p.m.

C. September 20, 2025 County Committee Meeting at 9:00 a.m. (Rescheduled to
1/31/26)

14. Adjournment




08.12.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                    8
                                                                               REVISED


A. Motion to Adjourn the Meeting by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

The meeting was adjourned at 8:40 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,



David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




08.12.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                     9
