                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                             Thursday, June 26, 2025 – 6:00 PM
Ted Wood                                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                   10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4
                                                Board Room – Second Floor
John Costa                                            Mather, California
Board Vice President
Division 9
                                                              &
                                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                   Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                     Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                     Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member            https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFlLQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Division 1

Grant Goold
Board Member           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D’Elman Clark
Board Member
                       Application, please click on the link above.
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member           reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member           accommodations:
Division 8
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, JUNE 26, 2025


 CALL TO ORDER

 ROLL CALL

 PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro14live.saccounty.gov. Today’s meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
June 30, 2025, and again at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, July 2, 2025, on Metro Cable
Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand at
youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers’ comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                     Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                              6
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of May 22, 2025.

2.     Board Policy 01.012.01 – Debt Management Policy                                                                     12
       Recommendation: Approve the amendments to the Debt Management Policy.
              Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                   THURSDAY, JUNE 26, 2025


3.   Board Policy 01.010.03 – Purchasing and Contracting Policy                                                        19
     Recommendation: Approve the amendments to the Purchasing and Contracting
     Policy.

4.   Disclosure of Material Expenditure – Excess Workers’ Compensation            32
     Insurance – Safety National Casualty Corporation - $537,745.00
     Recommendation: Authorize a payment of $537,745.00 to Safety National Casualty
     Corporation for Excess Workers’ Compensation Insurance.

5.   Disclosure of Material Expenditure – General/Property/Liability Commercial 34
     Insurance – Fire Agencies Insurance Rick Authority (FAIRA) for the FY 25/26 –
     $3,031,6555
     Recommendation: Authorize a payment of $3,031,655.00 to Fire Agencies Insurance
     Risk Authority (FAIRA) for commercial insurance.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:
1.   Measure O General Obligation Bond Issuance                                                                        36
     (Chief Financial Officer Dave O’Toole)
     Recommendation: Receive the presentation.

ACTION ITEMS:
1.   Disclosure of Material Expenditure – Excess General Liability Insurance –  43
     Vantage Risk Specialty Insurance Company for $307,992.30 and Westchester
     Surplus Lines Insurance Company for $215,439.84
     (Brad Svennungsen, USI Insurance Services
     Recommendation: Authorize payment of $307,992.30 to Vantage Risk Specialty
     Insurance Company and $215,439.84 to Westchester Surplus Lines Insurance
     Company for Excess General Liability Insurance.

2.   Sacramento Local Agency Formation Commission (LAFCo) - Nominations          45
     for Special District Commissioners
     (Board Clerk Marni Rittburg)
     Recommendation: Nominate Director Jones to Sacramento LAFCo for the Special
     District Commissioner seat as a full voting member to serve a 4-year term.

REPORTS:

1.   PRESIDENT’S REPORT — (President Wood)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT — (Chief House)

           OPERATIONS REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, JUNE 26, 2025


              ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT – (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

              SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT – (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

3.    SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
      522 Vice President)

4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
      Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

      A.      Executive Committee – (President Wood)
              Next Meeting: TBD

      B.      Communications Center JPA – (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
              Next Meeting: June 24, 2025 & July 8, 2025, at 9:00 AM
              SRFECC Annex – 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite B, Sacramento

      C.      Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Jones)
              Next Meeting: July 24, 2025, at 5:30 PM

      D.      Policy Committee – (Director Costa)
              Next Meeting: July 10, 2025, at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter(s):

1.    Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) – one (1)
      matter of Workers' Compensation Compromise and Release

           Jason Cahill and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
           Claim # 4A2305MHPDS0001
           Workers’ Compensation Settlement Authority
           Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer

2.    Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) –one (1) matter
      of Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority

           Loren Mansel and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
           Claim # 4A2302G3HGQ0001
           Workers’ Compensation Settlement Authority
           Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                            THURSDAY, JUNE 26, 2025


CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

    •   Regular Board Meeting – July 10, 2025, at 6:00 PM

Posted on June 23, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.

_____________________________________
Marni Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board

** No written report
*    Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility.
