                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I

                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702
~ .;, ~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                                  ADOPTED
                   ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING
                               BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                       SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                   Thursday, June 26, 2025
                                Held at the following locations:
                            10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                       Mather, California
                                                &
                                      Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:01 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Rice, Saylors, Webber and Wood. Remotely on Zoom: Jones. Board members
  absent: Goold, and Stark. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  No public comments were received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by members
  present to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.     Action Summary Minutes
         Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
         of May 22, 2025.
         Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.     Board Policy 01.012.01 - Debt Management Policy
         Recommendation: Approve the amendments to the Debt Management Policy.
         Action: Adopted the Debt Management Policy.

  3.     Board Policy 01.010.03 - Purchasing and Contracting Policy
         Recommendation: Approve the amendments to the Purchasing and Contracting Policy.
         Action: Adopted the Purchasing and Contracting Policy.

  4.      Disclosure of Material Expenditure - Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance -
          Safety National Casualty Corporation - $537,745.00
          Recommendation: Authorize a payment of $537,745.00 to Safety National Casualty
          Corporation for Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance.
          Action: Authorized a payment of $537,745.00 to Safety National Casualty Corporation for
          Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance.
5.    Disclosure of Material Expenditure - General/Property/Liability Commercial
      Insurance - Fire Agencies Insurance Rick Authority (FAIRA) for the FY 25/26 -
      $3,031,6555
      Recommendation: Authorize a payment of $3,031,655.00 to Fire Agencies Insurance
      Risk Authority (FAIRA) for commercial insurance.
      Recommendation: Authorized a payment of $3,031,655.00 to Fire Agencies Insurance
      Risk Authority (FAIRA) for commercial insurance.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.    Measure O General Obligation Bond Issuance
      (Chief Financial Officer Dave O'Toole)
      Recommendation: Receive the presentation.
      Action: Presentation received.

ACTION ITEMS

1.    Disclosure of Material Expenditure - Excess General Liability Insurance -
      Vantage Risk Specialty Insurance Company for $307,992.30 and Westchester
      Surplus Lines Insurance Company for $215,439.84
      (Brad Svennungsen, USI Insurance Services
      Recommendation: Authorize payment of $307,992.30 to Vantage Risk Specialty
      Insurance Company and $215,439.84 to We~tchester Surplus Lines Insurance
      Company for Excess General Liability Insurance.
      Recommendation: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Webber, and carried
      unanimously by members present to authorize a payment of $307,992.30 to Vantage Risk
      Specialty Insurance Company and $215,439.84 to Westchester Surplus Lines Insurance
      Company for Excess General Liability Insurance.

2.    Sacramento Local Agency Formation Commission (LAFCo) - Nominations for Special
      District Commissioners
      (Board Clerk Marni Rittburg)
      Recommendation: Nominate Director Jones to Sacramento LAFCo for the Special
      District Commissioner seat as a full voting member to serve a 4-year term.
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously
      by members present to nominate Director Jones to Sacramento LAFCo for the
      Special District Commissioner seat as a full voting member to serve a 4-year term.

REPORTS

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

       No Report

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -         (Chief House)

Good evening, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public

New Hire:
Please join me in welcoming Arthur Klets, hired for the position of Fire Inspector I in the
Community Risk Reduction Division, effective June 23.
6.26.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 2 of 7
Promotions:
Congratulations to following
   • Anthony Berkey for being promoted to Fire Inspector I effective June 23.
   • Jasmine Vu for being promoted to Plan Intake Specialist effective June 23.
   • Ray Mora for being promoted to Engineer effective June 13.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

1. Service Delivery Changes to Address Staffing

   •   Following up on the discussion at the last Board meeting about eliminating
       mandatories and brown outs
   •   Operations Staffing Priorities have been, and will continue to be:
           o #1 Eliminate Brownouts
           o #2 Eliminate Mandatory Overtime
           o #3 Increase Service Delivery
           o Our focus and goal to achieve the above priorities is still Spring, 2026. This
              includes fully staffed ranks of both MMPs and firefighters, while having a fully
              staffed pool in both ranks as well. We haven't had this for quite a number of
              years.
           o However, we're not waiting until Spring of next year to be adaptive and respond
              efficiently to the needs of our members and the community.
   •   To reinforce the last point, Ops brought forward a plan to exec staff the week following
       the last Board meeting, which had been in development for a while, to transition two
       FDM ambulances to MMP ambulances.
   •   Current staffing levels support the transition and don't burden any of our members
       unnecessarily
   •   Allows for a pool of firefighters immediately to decrease brownouts and mandatory
       callbacks, while still maintaining an MMP pool.
   •   Met with 522, and with some minor changes, we reached an agreement last week.
   •   I'm happy to report that the plan was implemented on Monday of this week, which is
       having an immediate impact on staffing as we move further into summer.

2. Shift Commander Spotlight

   •   Chief Rudnicki introduced new Captain Carlile who was promoted effective June 9.
       Captain Carlile introduced himself to the Board .

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

COMMUNITY RELATIONS DIVISION
  • Last week, Metro Fire hosted an amazing Fire Camp that left 80 kids bursting
    with confidence and a newfound appreciation for teamwork! They experienced
    the rewarding life of a Metro firefighter. A heartfelt thank you goes out to
    everyone who made this incredible experience possible-our dedicated
    firefighters, supportive staff, logistics team, reserves, and explorers, all of whom
    played vital roles . We would also like to extend a huge shout-out to the behind-
    the-scenes divisions, such as finance, fleet, facilities, and logistics, that
    contributed in many valuable ways! Together, we created a week filled with life
    skills and memories that the kids will cherish for years to come.

6.26.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 3 of 7
   •   This week, media coverage was provided for two prescribed burns. To ensure
       the public was informed, we collaborated with several reg ional agencies,
       including Sacramento Regional Parks, the City of Rancho Cordova, the Board
       of Supervisors, the City of Citrus Heights, and OES.

   •   As we prepare for the 4th of July, our public relations strategy includes several
       key initiatives. We have placed "Keep it Safe, Keep it Legal" stickers on our
       engines to promote the importance of using Safe and Sane fireworks. Our
       social media presence will be enhanced with posts highlighting safety tips.
       Additionally, we aim to secure media coverage that focuses on safety, which
       may include ride-along experiences for journalists to observe our CRRD team in
       action.

FINANCE

   •   The Finance Division received notice recently that it has been officially
       recognized by the Government Finance Officers of America for achieving "Triple
       Crown" status. Specifically, excellence awards were given for three major fiscal
       year 2022-23 reports:
          o Annual Comprehensive Financial Report
          o Popular Annual Financial Report (what we call our Community Annual
             Report), and
          o Annual Final Budget
The District is one of 401 winners across the U.S. and Canada, putting us in the top half of
one percent of all cities, counties, and special districts.

There are only two other fire district winners.

Within California, we're among 48 winners, putting us in the top 1.4% of local governments in
the state.

SUPPORT SERVICES - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

Logistics:
  • Promotional opportunity underway from the position of Warehouse Manager - we hope
      to have the position filled with an internal candidate within the next month.
  • In preparation to move station 64 to market, cleanup and asset removal have been
      completed.
  • With continual cost savings in mind, Logistics Manager Siebert is actively renegotiating
      our drinking water machine rental and oxygen tank contracts.

CRRD:

   •   Of the 805 weed abatement inspections conducted, we have seen a compliance rate
       of 85% compared to 76% last year.
   •   In preparation for safe and insane fireworks sales, inspectors will be busy conducting
       152 fireworks stand inspections on Saturday.
   •   Additionally, CRRD staff will be active July 3, 4 and 5 supporting local fireworks
       displays and to assist our Fire Investigations Unit with enforcement, and fire origin &
       cause.

6.26.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 4 of 7
     •   In effort to enhance public outreach on the use and proper disposal of Safe and Sane
         fireworks, and to reinforce no tolerance for dangerous fireworks use and sales, there
         will be a joint press conference on July 1 with the State Fire Marshal Office, the DA's
         Office, the Sacramento County Sheriff's Department and local agencies. The press
         conference will be held at the McClellan brick yard at 10:00 AM. Fire Marshal Nygren
         will also be attendance.
Facilities:

     •   The station re-flooring project at 53, 31, and 108 have recently been completed.
     •   To help support our PPE laundering program - facilities just completed installing two
         additional washer extractors and a new ultrasonic cleaner at out Logistics building.
     •   Facilities Manager Eachus has finalized an extensive plan to complete several roof
         repairs and HVAC upgrades throughout the district starting July 1, with the Station 50
         apparatus bay first up.
     •   All District owned properties requiring weed abatement have been successfully
         mitigated.

Fleet:

     •   Within the next few weeks, Fleet will be sending one representative down to L.A. to
         inspect two new ambulance re-mounts and a team of six will be heading Wisconsin to
         complete an inspection on 5 new Type I engines.
     •   Fleet has an open recruitment for the position of Shop Assistant with approximately 30
         applications have been received thus far. The final filing date is Tuesday, July 15, at
         4:00 PM.

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
     Captain Sean Scollard reported that Local 522 will be sending over a Notice of Intension
     to Negotiate early next week. We would like to have the District get salary surveys done
     now. We collaborated with the District to reduce brownouts. There is still work to be done
     to be successful but we look forward to having continued conversations. Director Rice
     requested a salary survey be completed for all unrepresented positions.

4.       COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
         All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
         10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.


         A.      Executive Committee - (President Wood)

                  No Report

         B.      Communications Center JPA- (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
                 The Communication Center JPA Board last met on June 24, 2025. During that
                 meeting the Board approved the Fiscal Year 25/26 Final Budget for the
                 Communications Center. The Board was also notified that Assistant Chief
                 Robert Knaggs would be replacing Assistant Chief Scott Williams on the Board
                 as the representative for the Sacramento Fire Department. Chief Williams is
                 retiring after 30 year of service to the Sacramento Fire Department. Chief
                 Williams was thanked for his many years of service.

6.26.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                          Page 5 of 7
       C.      Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Clark)
               The Finance and Audit Committee met tonight and received a presentation from
               CFO O'Toole on the Bimonthly Fiscal Report through April 30, 2025. The
               takeaways were: General Fund revenue $8.0 million below budget and $15.4
               million higher than prior year. General Fund expenditures are $7.3 million lower
               than Midyear Budget. Labor costs are trending $1.8 million above Midyear
               Budget estimate. PPGEMT revenues are growing across 28 months.

      D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)

               No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Clark stated he has a great time at Fire Camp. It's one of the most exciting events of
the year. Wishing everyone a happy and safe July 4th .

Director Webber stated that he would like a proclamation or something similar for Brenda
Briggs for running Fire Camp for so many years.

President Wood thanked Brenda Briggs and April West for putting on Fire Camp.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 6:41 p.m. on the following matter(s):

1.    Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) - one (1) matter of
      Workers' Compensation Compromise and Release

         Jason Cahill and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Claim# 4A2305MHPDS0001
         Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
         Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer
      Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by members
      present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a settlement of the
      matter.
2.    Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) -one (1) matter
      of Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority

            Loren Mansel and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
            Claim # 4A2302G3HGQ0001
            Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
            Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer

       Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by members
       present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a settlement of the
       matter.

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened in open session at 6:53 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
that the Board met in closed session on two items: 1. Workers' Compensation Compromise
and Release: Jason Cahill Workers' Compensation Claim, the Board voted unanimously to

6.26.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 6 of 7
give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a settlement of the matter. 2.
Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority: Loren Mansel Workers' Compensation Claim,
the Board voted unanimously to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a
settlement of the matter.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2025-06-26-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uK1c oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 6:54 p.m.




Ted Wood, Board President                           Rfobert Webber,Secretary


      l¼w
Marni Rittburg , C
Board Clerk




6.26.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                 Page 7 of 7
