                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Xve., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700

  ADAM A. HOUSE
     Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                                Thursday, June 26, 2025 - 6:00 PM
Ted Wood
                                               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                      10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4
                                                   Board Room - Second Floor
John Costa                                              Mather, California
Board Vice President                                                       &
Division 9
                                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                   Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                     Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                    if Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member             https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ 1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1 VWZz09
Division 1


Grant Goold
Board Member
                       The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D'Elman Clark          Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a ~egular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member           accommodations:
Division 8
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, JUNE 26, 2025


►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded . The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov. Today's meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
June 30, 2025, and again at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, July 2, 2025, on Metro Cable
Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand at
youtube.comlmetrocable 14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers' comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                      Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                              6
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of May 22, 2025.

2.     Board Policy 01.012.01 - Debt Management Policy                                                                     12
       Recommendation: Approve the amendments to the Debt Management Policy.
              Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                   THURSDAY, JUNE 26, 2025


3.   Board Policy 01.010.03 - Purchasing and Contracting Policy                                                        19
     Recommendation: Approve the amendments to the Purchasing and Contracting
     Policy.

4.   Disclosure of Material Expenditure - Excess Workers' Compensation            32
     Insurance - Safety National Casualty Corporation - $537,745.00
     Recommendation: Authorize a payment of $537,745.00 to Safety National Casualty
     Corporation for Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance.

5.   Disclosure of Material Expenditure - General/Property/Liability Commercial 34
     Insurance - Fire Agencies Insurance Rick Authority (FAIRA) for the FY 25/26 -
     $3,031,6555
     Recommendation: Authorize a payment of $3,031,655.00 to Fire Agencies Insurance
     Risk Authority (FAIRA) for commercial insurance.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.   Measure O General Obligation Bond Issuance                                                                        36
     (Chief Financial Officer Dave O'Toole)
     Recommendation: Receive the presentation.

ACTION ITEMS:

1.   Disclosure of Material Expenditure - Excess General Liability Insurance -  43
     Vantage Risk Specialty Insurance Company for $307,992.30 and Westchester
     Surplus Lines Insurance Company for $215,439.84
     (Brad Svennungsen, USI Insurance Services
     Recommendation: Authorize payment of $307,992.30 to Vantage Risk Specialty
     Insurance Company and $215,439.84 to Westchester Surplus Lines Insurance
     Company for Excess General Liability Insurance.

2.   Sacramento Local Agency Formation Commission (LAFCo) - Nominations          45
     for Special District Commissioners
     (Board Clerk Marni Rittburg)
     Recommendation: Nominate Director Jones to Sacramento LAFCo for the Special
     District Commissioner seat as a full voting member to serve a 4-year term.

REPORTS:

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT -               (President Wood)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -             (Chief House)

           OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave. , Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, JUNE 26, 2025


              ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

              SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

3.   SMFD- FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT- (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
     522 Vice President)

4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
      Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

      A.      Executive Committee - (President Wood)
              Next Meeting: TBD

      8.      Communications Center JPA- (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
              Next Meeting : June 24, 2025 & July 8, 2025, at 9:00 AM
              SRFECC Annex - 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite B, Sacramento

      C.      Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
              Next Meeting: July 24, 2025, at 5:30 PM

      D.      Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
              Next Meeting: July 10, 2025, at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter(s):

1.    Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) - one (1)
      matter of Workers' Compensation Compromise and Release

           Jason Cahill and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
           Claim# 4A2305MHPDS0001
           Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
           Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer

2.    Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) -one (1) matter
      of Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority

           Loren Mansel and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
           Claim # 4A2302G3HGQ0001
           Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
           Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                         THURSDAY, JUNE 26, 2025



CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong A venue, Mather, CA

    •   Regular Board Meeting - July 10, 2025, at 6:00 PM

Posted on June 23, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.


M
rl°=/l~
Clerk of the Board

** No written report
'Im Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility.
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief    ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                              BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                      SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                  Thursday, May 22, 2025
                               Held at the following locations:
                           10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                      Mather, California
                                               &
                                     Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:02 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold, Rice, Saylors, Stark, Webber and Wood. Board members absent:
  Jones. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  No public comments were received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Webber seconded by Rice and carried unanimously by members present
  to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.     Action Summary Minutes
         Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
         of April 24, 2025.
         Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.     Disclosure of Material Expenditure - Insurance Broker Services - USI Insurance
         Services - $50,000
         Recommendation: Authorize the payment of $50,000 to USI Insurance Services for
         insurance brokerage services.                                                 •
         Action: Approved

  3.     Disclosure of Material Expenditure - Aviation Liability Insurance - Chubb
         Insurance Group - $185,187.
         Recommendation: Authorize the payment of $185,187.00 to Chubb Insurance                   Group
         for the purchase of Aviation Liability Insurance.
         Action: Approved




                                                                                                           P6
4.    Adopt Resolution - Qualified Bidders List - Fire Station 67 Project
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution establishing a Qualified Bidders List that includes
      those firms who were successful in the pre-qualification process.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-025.

5.    Adopt Resolution - Special Fire Tax - Sloughhouse/Rancho Murieta Area
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the County Assessor to incorporate
      the $100 per parcel Special Fire Tax for the Sloughhouse/Rancho Murieta area with
      the 2025/26 Sacramento County property tax levy.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-026.

6.    Adopt Resolution - Annual Adjustment for Medical Aid and Ambulance Transport
      User Fee
      Recommendation: In accordance with the Ordinance, adopt the Resolution amending
      the Ambulance Fee Schedule.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-027.

7.    Adopt Resolution - Annual Fee Adjustment for Operational Permits, Plan Review,
      New Construction Inspections, General Fire and Life Safety Inspections, and other
      Miscellaneous Services
      Recommendation: In accordance with the Ordinance, adopt the Resolution
      amending the Fee Schedule.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-028.

8.    Adopt Resolution - Surplus Equipment
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the disposal of the I.T. Division's
      surplus equipment.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-029.

9.    Purchase Approval - Fleet Service Truck
      Recommendation: Approve the purchase of a Fleet Service Truck from National Auto
      Fleet Group utilizing the Sourcewell contract number 091521 -NAF.
      Action: Approved

PUBLIC HEARING

1.    Introduction and First Reading of Proposed Ordinance 2025-01, 2025 Fire Hazard
      Severity Zone Map
      (Acting Deputy Fire Marshal Schmidt)
      Recommendation: Conduct a Public Hearing and introduce Ordinance 2025-01, by
      title only, waiving the first reading, and proceed with scheduling the second reading
      and adoption for June 12, 2025, to adopt Ordinance 2025-01, thereby adopting the
      2025 Fire Hazard Severity Zone Map.
       President Wood opened the Public Hearing at 6:06 PM. President Wood closed the
       Public Hearing at 6:20 PM.

Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by members
present to waive the first reading and adopt the Ordinance moving it forward to the second
reading.


                                                                                              P7
5.22.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                Page 2 of 5
ACTION ITEMS

1.        Adopt Resolution - Contract Award Recommendation - 9-1-1 Advanced Life Support
          Ambulance Services
          (Assistant Chief Kiley Keeley)
          Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving a contract award to American Medical
          Response West OBA American Medical Response and authorize the Fire Chief or his
          designee to execute and administer an agreement and any extensions thereto.
          Action: Moved by Director Goold, seconded by Clark, and carried unanimously by
          members present to adopt Resolution 2025-030, Approving a Contract Award for
          Advanced Life Support Ambulance Services.

2.         Adopt Resolutions - Measure O - General Obligation Bond Financing Plan
           (Dave O'Toole, Chief Financial Officer)
           (Bobby Cheung, Managing Director, KNN Public Finance, LLC)
           (David Leifer, Senior Managing Director, KNN Public Finance, LLC)
           (Brian Quint, Of Counsel, Stradling Yocca Carlson & Rauth LLP)
           Recommendation : Adopt the two Resolutions authorizing the execution of the
           Measure O Financing Plan.
           Action: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by
           members present to adopt Resolution 2025-031, Authorizing the Issuance and Sale of
           the District's General Obligation Bonds, Election of 2024, Series A (2025), in an Amount
           Not to Exceed $160,000,000.
           Action: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by
           members present to adopt Resolution 2025-032, Approving a Disclosure Procedure.

REPORTS

1.        PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

           No Report

2.        FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Chief House)

Good evening, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public

New Hire:
Please join me in welcoming:

      •    Jack Bergin, hired for the position of Fire Mechanic in the Fleet Division, effective May
           1.
      •    the following members hired for the position of Reserve FF, effective May 6
               o Bradley Rankin
               o Dylan Rector - introduced himself to the Board
               o Ashley Pavloff-Salazar
               o Kalin Camacho Charles Segarra - introduced himself to the Board
               o 'Shayne Smith - introduced himself to the Board

Promotion:
Congratulations to Diana Schmidt for being promoted to Deputy Fire Marshal effective May
19.
                                                                                                       P8
5.22.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                         Page 3 of 5
Appointment:
Congratulations to Joe Fiorica for being appointed as the Administration Branch Deputy Chief
effective May 12.

Misc.:
Chief House read the attached letter recognizing Erin Castleberry.

        OPERATIONS REPORT - (Assistant Chief Daly)

        Chief Daly reported that this week the District implemented new reporting procedures
        related to behavioral health response. With the new reporting procedures, we should
        be able to produce more detailed information regarding what Law Enforcement
        agencies are responding when requested, and what agencies aren't.

        ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)

        No Report

        SUPPORT SERIVES - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)
        No Report

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
     Captain Sean Scollard expressed congratulations to the new hires and promotions.
     Captain Scollard reported that he attended a Rancho Cordova City Council meeting and
     was disappointed that the Metro Fire Executive Team was not present. Our budget ask
     was cut in half. We are looking for high-level collaboration. We had a great trip to Cap-to-
     Cap and was happy to speak to the Board Members who were attended.

4.      COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
        All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
        10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.


        A.      Executive Committee - (President Wood)

                 No Report

        B.      Communications Center JPA - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)
                 No Report

        C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
                 The Finance and Audit Committee met tonight and heard two presentations: 1.
                 Preliminary CIP. 2. Preliminary Budget. Both of these items will come to the full
                 Board at the next Board meeting.

        D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)

                 No Report

                                                                                                                     P9
5.22.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                         Page 4 of 5
BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Saylors congratulated the new hires and welcome to Metro Fire and congratulations
to the newly promoted members.

Director Rice congratulated Chief Fiorica on his promotion to Deputy Chief.

Director Goold thanked staff for their great reports tonight. Congratulations to Erin on the
letter she received that Chief House read from PCWA regarding the Cap-to-Cap program.

Director Costa thanked staff for their great reports tonight.

To view the video of the meeting , please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2025-05-22-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA


ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 7:04 p.m.



Ted Wood, Board President                             Robert Webber, Secretary



Marni Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk




                                                                                               P10
5.22.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 5 of 5
                                                                      AIR POLLUTION CONTROL DISTRICT




May 5, 2025


Chief Adam House
Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
10545 Armstrong Avenue, Suite 200
Mather, CA 95655-4102


Subject:       Recognition of Erin Castleberry for her service and leadership in the 2025 Capitol-to-Capitol
               program


Dear Chief House,

We are writing to express gratitude to the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District for having Erin Castleberry
lead our team and recognize her excellence in service and leadership.

We are co-leads with Erin on the Wildfire & Forest Health team for this year's program. This is a newer
team in only its second year that is still developing purpose and framework. Being her first year on the team,
Erin volunteered to have a stronger role as a co-leader, and we welcomed that in hope of fresh ideas.

Erin masterfully used her strong organizational, critical thinking, and interpersonal skills to focus our team's
purpose and add clarity and simplicity to our federal platform. She has a certain quiet leadership about her
that fosters confidence and trust - the team members responded very well to that. Erin also accepted the
burden of workload associated with this role and always delivered on time and with grace.

This year's Capitol-to-Capitol program was made better by Erin's excellence in service and leadership on
this impo1iant team.

Sincerely,




Anthony L. Firenzi, PE                        Erik White
Placer County Water Agency                    Placer County Air Pollution Control District
Director of Strategic Affairs                 Air Pollution Control Officer


Cc:    Jeff Frye, Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
       Robert Heidt, Sacramento Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce




                                                                                                                   P11
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
  l         I        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700


lfiv,:#
ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief




  DATE:           June 26, 2025

  TO:              Board of Directors

   SUBJECT:        Board Policy
                   Policy 01 .012.01 - Debt Management Policy



                                                   TOPIC

   Consideration of changes to the current Policy 01.012.01 - Debt Management Policy.


                                              BACKGROUND

   The District may borrow funds to finance long-term capital improvement projects that cannot
   prudently be funded through general operating funds. The Debt Management Policy
   complies with Government Code section 8855(i) and governs all debt incurred by the
   District. This Policy establishes guidelines for the issuance and management of the
   District's debt and borrowing.

   With District voters' approval of Measure O on November 5, 2024, and the Board of
   Directors approval of the Measure O financing plan on May 22, 2025, the District seeks to
   update its Debt Management Policy to conform to the most current and best practices for
   municipal agency debt management.

                                               DISCUSSION

   Attached is the amended Policy, which was last amended and approved by the Board on
   August 13, 2015. The principal changes to the policy:

        •   Define the term "Capital Improvement Program" and specify its role in identifying
            projects for consideration for debt financing.
        •   Define the term "debt" as a financing obligation and specify that the type of debt
            selected will be identified by the Chief Financial Officer and approved by the Board
            of Directors (Board).
        •   Specify that the District shall strive to limit variable rate debt to no more than 20
            percent of its overall debt.
        •   Stipulate that if the District opts to use derivative financing products, it must adopt a
            separate policy guiding the use of derivatives.
        •   Specify that all debt issuances will be subject to annual audit and may be reviewed
            by an independent citizen-led debt oversight committee.


                                  Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                           P12
                                  FISCAL IMPACT

There is no demonstrable fiscal impact associated with adopting the proposed policy
amendments.


                                RECOMMENDATION




                                                                L
Staff recommends approval of the amendments to the Debt Management Policy.


Submitted by:                                Approved by:


                                                ~~~
Dave O'Toole                                 Adam House
Chief Financial Officer                      Fire Chief




                                                                                      P13
          Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                   BOARD POLICY
POLICY TITLE:        Debt Management Policy                      OVERSIGHT: Administration
POLICY NUMBER:     01.012.01 EFFECTIVE DATE:          08/13/15   REVIEW DATE:
                   08~~05/05/25



Background

The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (District) may, from time to time, opt to borrow
funds to finance long-term capital improvement projects that cannot prudently be funded
through operating funds. This policy is intended to comply with Government Code
section 8855(i) and shall govern all debt incurred by the District. This Debt Management
Policy establishes guidelines for the issuance and management of the District's debt and
borrowing. The Debt Management Policy confirms the commitment of the District,
management, and staff to adhere to sound financial management practices.



Purpose
Tho Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (District) may, from time to time, opt to borrO'tv
funds to finance long term capital improvement projects that cannot prudently be funded
through operating funds. The purpose of this policy is to set forth written guidelines for
the issuance, structuring, and administration of debt issued to finance District
expenditures.

This policy seeks to balance the following important objectives of the District relative to
the management of its debt portfolio:

J!!Minimize financing costs, including interest and issuance costs. _
A.§chieve and maintain highest practical credit ratingJ.
P:full and timely repayment of debtJ.
p:full and complete financial disclosure and reportingJ.
G_gompliance with all applicable laws and regulations

This polio, is intended to comply with Government Code section 8855(i) and shall
govern all debt incurred by the District.

This Debt Policy establishes guidelines for the issuance and management of the
District's debt and borrowing. The Debt Policy confirms the commitment of the District,
management, and staff to adhere to sound financial management practices.

Scope
This policy applies to all District debt issuances.

Definitions




                                                                                  1IPage

                                                                                               P14
                                                                             Debt Management Policy
                                                                                         01.012.01
                                                                                          08/13/15

1.        Capital Improvement Program (CIP) Plan. The GIP Plan is the District's
          annual capital plan identifying all requests and funded projects over the next five
          (5) years.

2.        Debt: For purposes of this policy, Debt means bonds, notes, certificates of
          participation, financing leases or any other financing obligation.


4:-_
   3_. _ Financial Advisor+ (or Municipal Advisor::forMunicpal Ad•1isor): A Financial
         Advisor is a professional services firm selected and retained by the District to act
         in a fiduciary capacity. Primary functions of the Financial Advisor include
         assistance in the development of the plan of finance and transaction timetable,
         advice on the method of sale, assistance with the selection of underwriters and
         other professional services, and overall coordination of the financing effort.

2-,.L_Long-Term Debt: For purposes of this policy, Long-Term Debt is defined as any
      debt with required payments beyond the fiscal year in which the debt is issued.

~_
 5_. _ Operating Cost: Operating Cost is defined as any expenses for labor, services
       and supplies, or any other non-capital expenses.

4-,_
   6 ._   Short-Term Debt: For purposes of this policy, Short-Term Debt is defined as any
          debt issued with full repayment within the current fiscal year.


Policy
1.        Authority and Responsibility

          a. All District debt issuance and debt management practices shall be performed
             in accordance with applicable federal, state and other legal requirements.
          b. The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) is responsible for managing and
             coordinating activities related to the issuance, structure and administration of
             all debt obligations, regardless of length of term or purpose of financing.
          c. The Board of Directo( s approval is required before the District undertakes
             any new debt obligation.

2.        Debt Management

          a. Debt capacity - The District will keep outstanding debt within the limits of
             applicable law, regulations, and bond covenants, and at a level consistent
             with this policy.
          b. Funding considerations - The District shall consider all relevant factors when
             evaluating pay-as-you-go versus debt financing to fund capital expenditures.
             Funding on a pay-as-you-go basis generally results in lower total cost due to
             the avoidance of interest and financing expense.

              _!. _ Circumstances that would favor pay-as-you-go funding include:

                                                       · -   - •·   ··· ·-   -- . . . - - . -   . --- · -   ·-- -- ·   • •
                                                                                                     2 1P a g e

                                                                                                                             P15
                                                                 Debt Management Policy
                                                                             01.012.01
                                                                              08/13/15

            A.    Projected revenues and/or fund balances are sufficient to fund
                  project expenditures.
            B.    Adding to existing debt levels could adversely impact the District's
                  credit rating.
            C.    Market conditions are unfavorable or present uncertainty regarding
                  the ability to effectively complete a debt issuance.
        _I1._ Circumstances that would favor debt financing include:
            A.    A project is required to meet service needs or regulatory
                  requirements and current resources are insufficient to fund project
                  expenditures.
             B.   Current and projected revenues, net of other expenditure
                  requirements, are sufficient to pay projected debt service.
            C.     Market conditions present favorable interest rates.

3.   Debt Issuance


     a. Capital Improvement Program Plan - The District shall use its CIP Plan to
        identify projects for consideration for debt financing.

     a-,_
        b_. _ Long-Term Debt - Long-Term Debt may be used to finance (or refinance)
           the planning, design, construction, acquisition and/or improvement of land,
           infrastructure, facilities, or equipment for which it is appropriate to spread the
           costs over multiple budget years. Long-Term Debt may also be used to fund
           capitalized interest, costs of issuance, required reserves, and any other
           financing-related costs that may legally be debt-financed. Long-Term Debt
           shall not be used to fund District Operating Costs.
     &.-.Q,,Short-Term Debt - Short-Term Debt may be issued for any purpose for whi ch
            Long-Term Debt may be issued. Short-Term Debt is also appropriate to
            address legitimate short-term cash flow requirements during a given fiscal
            year to fund District Operating Costs. The District will not engage in short-
            term borrowing solely for purposes of generating investment returns .
     67~Professional assistance - The CFO shall have the authority to periodically
        select service providers, including Financial Advisors, §eond Csounsel,
        Disclosure Counsel, U1cmderwriters, §eond !insurers, and rating agencies, as
        necessary to meet legal requirements and minimize District debt costs. The
        CFO will make sushensure selections with the goal of achieving an
        appropriate balance between service (including experience, professional
        reputation, and market recognition) and cost.
     Eh-_
        e_. _ Method of sale - Except to the extent a competitive process is required
           by law, the CFO, in consultation with the District's Financial Advisor, shall be
           responsible for determining the appropriate manner in which to offer any
           securities to investors, including competitive sale, negotiated sale, or private
           placement.



                                                                                  3 I Page

                                                                                                P16
                                                                Debt Management Policy
                                                                            01.012.01
                                                                             08/13/15

     e-:-LSecurity/collateral - The security for each debt issuance shall be determined
          based on appropriateness for the use and amount of financing, as well as
          with the objectives of achieving the overall lowest cost of financing and
          maintaining or improving the District's credit rating.
     g_,_Conduit issuer- The CFO, in consultation with the District's Financial Advisor
         and depending on the preferred structure of the debt, shall be responsible for
         determining the appropriate use of conduit issuers for the issuance of District
         debt.
     th. Type of debt - The type of debt selected will be identified by the CFO and
         approved by the Board of Directors. Types of debt to be considered include:
         general obligation bonds, lease-revenue bonds, pension obligation bonds,
         and community finance districts.

4.   Debt Structuring

     a. Length of term - The District shall structure its debt so that the maturity of the
        debt issue is consistent with the economic or useful life of the asset(s) being
        financed.
     b. Debt service structure - Debt service shall be structured in generally level
        annual payments, with exceptions related to pricing and cash flow
        considerations as well as the structure of existing debt to achieve overall level
        payments.
     c. Interest rate - Fixed-rate debt shall be the preferred method of financing.
        There may be situations in which issuing debt with an interest rate that varies
        according to a pre-determined formula or index is in the best interest of the
        District; however, lower variable rates must always be weighed against the
        greater risk associated with variable rate financings. The District shall strive
        to limit the amount of variable rate debt to no more than 20% of its overall
        portfolio.
     d. Call provisions - In order to maintain future flexibility, the District's preferred
        structure for 1,tong:-tierm DElebt shall be to include optional redemption at par at
        a reasonable call date given the overall structure of the financing.
     e. Derivatives - The District will not use any derivative products.If the District
        decides to utilize derivatives in the future, the District shall adopt a separate
        derivatives policy.

5.   Debt Administration

     a. Internal Controls - the District shall use its CIP Plan to direct long-term
        financing resources. Additionally, all debt issuances will be subject to annual
        audit and may also be reviewed by an independent citizen-led debt oversight
        committee.
     a-:_b._ Post-lssuance Compliance - The Finance Division shall maintain written
           procedures outlining required actions to ensure compliance with applicable
           laws and regulations, including requirements related to continuing disclosure,
           arbitrage rebate, and permitted investments of bond proceeds.

                                                                                         --   .
                                                                                 4IPag e

                                                                                                  P17
                                                                     Debt Management Policy
                                                                                 01.012.01
                                                                                  08/13/15

          e,-9.:.Refunding - Outstanding debt shall be reviewed periodically under the
                 direction of the CFO to identify opportunities to achieve savings through
                 refunding. When refinancing debt on a current basis, it shall be the policy
                 goal of the District to realize net present value debt service savings equal to
                 or greater than 3.0% of the refunded principal amount. Additionally, non-
                 economic refundings may be considered to achieve District objectives related
                 to operational flexibility or overall debt service profile.


References:

1.        District Policy - Capital Improvement Program Policy (March 22, 2022)
4--c-2.   Bobby Cheung of KNN Public Finance, LLC, a District municipal advisor




                                                                                      5IPage

                                                                                                   P18
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief




  DATE:           June 26, 2025

  TO:              Board of Directors

   SUBJECT:        Board Policy
                   Policy 01.010.03 - Purchasing and Contracting Policy



                                                   TOPIC

   Consideration of changes to the current Policy 01.010.03 - Purchasing and Contracting
   Policy.            •


                                             BACKGROUND

   The District's Purchasing and Contracting Policy was established to stimulate and promote
   competition for the procurement of District goods and services; ensure that all qualified and
   responsible suppliers have an opportunity to do business with the District; implement public
   purchasing best-practices that comply with all federal, state and, local laws; and adopt
   business practices that will facilitate effective business relationships and retain public
   confidence.


                                               D.ISCUSSION

   Attached is the amended Purchasing and Contracting Policy, which was last amended and
   approved by the Board on August 24, 2023. The principal changes to the policy:

        •   Provide a definition of gift of public funds and specify that expenditure of District
            resources must be reasonably related to a public purpose of the District. Specific
            examples of impermissible purchases are provided.

        •   Update code references and public project bidding thresholds related to projects
            performed by District employees and informal bids.

   The proposed changes were prepared by the Finance Division and reviewed by District
   counsel. The original policy and the newly revised policy are included for your review.




                                  Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                           P19
                                    FISCAL IMPACT

There is no de,monstrable fiscal impact associated with adopting the proposed policy
amendments.


                                  RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends approval of the revisions to the Purchasing· and Contracting Policy.


Submitted by:                                    Approved by:



Dave O'Toole
                                                ~~<~
                                                 Adam House
Chief Financial Officer                          Fire Chief




                                                                                        P20
             Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                          BOARD POLICY
POLICY TITLE:            Purchasing and Contracting Policy                  OVERSIGHT: Administration
POLICY NUMBER: 01.010.03          EFFECTIVE DATE:        11/04/92     REVIEW DATE:
                ,O_B~!14 ~~!?5>.~306/12/2025-L ............................................ ....... ..... ... _. • •• •· {'-F_o_rm_a_tt_e_d :_F_on_t:_9...:.p_t _ _ _ _ _ __ _ ___,



Background
The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's (District) Purchasing and Contracting Policy
was established to stimulate and promote competition for the procurement of District
goods and services; ensure that all qualified and responsible suppliers have an
opportunity to do business with the District; implement public purchasing best-practices
that comply with all federal, state and, local laws; and adopt business practices that will
facilitate effective business relationships and retain public confidence.

Purpose
The purpose of this policy is to provide direction for procuring goods and services to be
utilized by the District in meeting its mission of providing protection, education, and service
to our community.

Scope
This policy applies to all District personnel. .

Definitions
 1.      Bid: A statement of cost for goods and services, when specifics are known.

 2.      Board: The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District.

 3.      Capital Asset: Assets of significant value, broadly classified as land, buildings and
         improvements, infrastructure, equipment, and intangible assets, with a
         capitalization amount in excess of $5,000, and anticipated practical use period
         exceeding one fiscal year.

 4.      Emergency: A sudden, unexpected occurrence that poses a clear and imminent
         danger, requiring immediate action to prevent or mitigate the loss or impairment of
         life, health, property, or essential public services.

 5.      Fire Chief 's Designee: An employee of the District who has been designated
         by the Fire Chief to requisition and contract on behalf of the District.

 e-,---Capital-Asse&Assets--o~signifisant-value,eFGadly.Glas-sifjed-as-lane,buildiAg~nd
       impFGvemeRls;--iAfNls-tHiGture,-equipmeRt;--aRG-illtallgible-assels;--witR-a
       sapitali~tieR-ameool-i~ss--0f-$~OO;-ami-aRtlGipatee praclicaHise-peried
       exceedin~ ne-fiscal-yeaf,




                                                                                                   1IPage




                                                                                                                                                                      P21
                                                                       Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                         01.010.03
                                                                                        OB/1012023
                                                                                        06/12/2025
  7-,_
     6._ _ Formal Bid/Proposal: A competitive bid or proposal submitted in response to a
           formal solicitation process and pursuant to the requirements, terms, and
           conclitions outlined in the formal solicitation.

  g,_
    7._ _ Formal Solicitation Process: The process of issuing a Request for
          Bids/Proposals and receiving sealed written bids/proposals for purchases
          exceeding the minimum amount· prescribed by the County of Sacramento's
          Purchasing Ordinance (any amount in excess of $100,000). This does not include
          Public Projects, which must follow a different formal solicitation process.

           Gift of Public Funds : • Generally the spending of public funds for a private
           purpose or where the expenditure is not reasonably related to a public purpose
           consistent with the jurisdiction of the District.

 ~ _
   9 .__lnformal Solicitation Process: The process of receiving a minimum of three @
        informal bids/proposals, if available, for purchases in excess of $45,000 but less
        than the minimum amount prescribed in the County of Sacramento's Purchasing
        Ordinance (any amount in excess of $100,000) that would require the formal
        solicitation process. This does not include Public Projects, which must follow a
        different informal solicitation process.
                                    I

44-,1Q,______lnformal Bid/Proposal: A competitive bid, price quotation, or proposal for supplies
             or services' that is conveyed via letter, fax, email, or other written manner that does
             not require a formal sealed bid or proposal, public opening, or other formalities.

42-,_11
      _.__Lowest Responsive and Responsible Bidder: The entity that submits a bid that
          was responsive to the requirements of the solicitation and who has been deemed
          to have demonstrated the attribute of trustworthiness, as well as quality, fitness,
          capacity, and experience to satisfactorily perform the requested work and at the
          most competitive price.

-'hh1b..__Multiple Award Schedule: A schedule of non-exclusive contracts lo provide
          similar or comparable goods or services of indefinite quantity that are awarded to
          more than one supplier or vendor al varying prices for a specified term after
          completion of a formal solicitation process.

4 4 . ~Personal Property: Any goods, material, supplies, vehicles, machinery,
       furnishings, equipment, and any other tangible article required for the conduct of
       the business of the District.

~.11,_Proposal: A statement that includes the cost, timing, source, conditions, and
      related parameters associated with procurement of equipment, materials,
      supplies, and services, when specifics are not known or a solution is being sought.

-1-e,.1§,__Public Project: Includes either (1) construction, reconstruction, erection,
           alteration , renovation, improvement, demolition, and repair work involving any
           publicly owned, leased, or operated facility, or (2) painting or repainting of any
           publicly owned, leased, or operated facility. Public project" does not include
           maintenance work, which includes (1) routine, recurring, and usual work for the
           preservation or protection of any publicly owned or publicly operated facility for its

                                                                                         2IPage




                                                                                                       P22
                                                                       Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                        01.010.03
                                                                                       0314-0l2023
                                                                                       06/12/2025
           intended purposes, (2) minor repainting, and (3) landscape maintenance,
           including mowing, watering , trimming, pruning, planting, replacement of plants,
           and servicing of irrigation and sprinkler systems.

-1+.1.L_Purchase: Any contractual arrangement or transaction involving payment for the
        acquisition of title--«Heaklr--personal property; the use by rental, lease or otherwise
        of Feal-or--personal property, the provision of services by independent contractor or
        otherwise; or any combination of the foregoing.

     ~ p ~ n d , that wl:lich--is-affl)(ea----lG-laoo,lllat--wl:li6h-is-iAciaeAtal-eF
        appm:tenant to I3Ad,--1Rat-wru61Hs---immevaele-by-law,
*.1L..__Request for Bid (RFB): A written solicitation for sealed bids issued for the
        procurement of personal property or services in excess of $100,000, with clearly
        defined specifications.

20,.1.§.,___Request for Information (RFI): A non-binding method used to solicit information
            from potential suppliers of goods and services.

, 2 4 , ~Request for Proposal (RFP): A written solicitation for sealed proposals issued
         for the procurement of personal property or services in excess of $100,000,
         where requirements are qualitative rather than quantitative, or where the
         supplier/vendor is proposing a solution to a problem posed by the District.

6 h ~Req uest for Qualifications (RFQ): A pre-procurement process used to
     establish a pre-qualified list of suppliers/vendors who are eligible to respond to
     future formal solicitations for similar or comparable goods or services for a
     specified term due to their demonstrated qualifications and experience.

~.f.L._Special Services: Such services shall be limited to the f ields of accounting,
       administration, ambulance, architecture, custodial, economics, engineering,
       finance, insurance, labor relations, law, maintenance, mechanics, medicine,
       planning, science, technology, and other services which are incidental to the
       operation of the District.

    Policy
    1.     The Fire Chief shall designate purchasing authority to the Purchasing Agent and
           other designees, giving each the ability to make a purchase or enter into an
           agreement once all applicable purchasing procedures have been followed as
           described in this policy.

    2.     Pursuant to Article XVI. Section 6. of the California Constitution, no District
           personnel may make a Gift of Public Funds. Individuals who make a Gift of Public
           Funds; or permit others to make a gGift of Ppublic Ffunds; may be subject to
           disciplinary action by the District (including revocation of District-issued credit card)
           and civil and criminal penalties under state law.may--ae--wi:>ject lo dissipliAapt
           astiofr:::9Y::t!Je-Gislfist--and to proseclltiolHIAder GovernmefAAt--Gede !!~14. In
           addilioA,IJ6{K)kiny District issl!od credit card mayee-GaAcelledrevoke4



                                                                                        3 I Pag e




                                                                                                       P23
                                                                       Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                          01.010.03
                                                                                         0ll/Hl/2023
                                                                                         06/12/2025
_
3 ._ _ AII District personnel having purchasing authority shall conduct themselves in such
       a manner as to foster public and Board confidence in the integrity of the District's
       pu rchasing procedures.




Procedures
1.     General Purchasing and Procurement Procedures

       a. The Purchasing Agent ("Purchasing") may review all procurement requests
          (requisitions) for supplies and services prior to the order being placed witti the
          vendor to determine if the best value to the District is being met. 1=4lfGRaSifl9
          aoo-tlle-GivisiGAal-oua9et-efficer are joinlly--resf}Of!Siele-fer----iaemifyin9
          aGGefllaele-veAaOf&--fer-a-sflesifiG---f')reauct-er----sefViG&.--+1=1e---eivisienal-a1109et
          efficer is resf')onsible fer lechnical-aspeGts-e~s-evaluatieA-ana Purchasin§-i6
          fe&f')ensible fer the financial and seFVice acpecls. Once-aGGef)laele-v0flaef6
          l:lave-eeefl-eStaalisl:led;---PufGl:lasin9,ifl--GenjllnGtieA-Witl:l-llle-aivisieAal---bua9el
          effiGef,61:lall-be-fesf')eASiele-fer-eH611rin!}VeAaefS-SeleG!eG--£aA-l:lest resf')ena le
           the req uirement&-ef..eacll--partiGlllar-eFaeh

        b. A Purchase Order is required for all procurements that exceed $1,000.

        c. Purchasing will review all requisitions to assure compliance with this policy.

        d. Purchasing, in conjunction with the divisional budget officer, will be responsible
           for all communication with suppliers regarding performance issues.

        El. ~le contraGt-fer--£efVices-ef--Sl/Wlies may ee finalizes wilho111-PllfGl:lasing
            f)reviGin!}-ffiV-iew-aml--aflflHWah

        e. Purchasing will assume responsibility for issuing all RFBs, RFPs, RFls, and
           RFQs for goods and services through a coordinated effort with the involved
           division.

2.      Purchases of Personal Property

        a. Except as otherwise provided by law, all purchases shall be made in the name
           of the District.

        b. Amounts included in the annual budget approved by the Board for the purchase
           of specifically identified items of personal property shall constitute spending
           authority to the Fire Chief or Fire Chief's Designee for such items of personal
           property up to the approved amounts. All such purchases shall be in
           accordance with the methods and procedures described herein.

        c. Where the cost of personal property is any amount in excess of $45,000 but
           does not exceed $100,000, the Fire Chief or Fire Chief's Designee shall be
           required to follow the informal solicitation process set forth in section 5 herein.


                                                                                          4IPage




                                                                                                         P24
                                                              Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                               01.010.03
                                                                              08!10!2023
                                                                              06/12/2025
     d. Where the cost of personal property is any amount in excess of $100,000, the
        Fire Chief or Fire Chief's Designee shall be required to follow the formal
        solicitation process set forth in section 6 or section 7 of this policy.

3.   Procurement of Special Services

     a. The District may contract for special services (as defined in the Definitions
        section of this policy) with persons or expert firms specially trained,
        experienced, and competent to perform the special service.

     b. The Fire Chief or Fire Chief's Designee is hereby authorized to enter into
        agreements, by which independent contractors provide such special services
        to the District. Any special service contract or agreement !flat-where the annual
        aggregate cost does not exceed is-les-s--ti'laA-$100,000 can be entered into
        without the informal solicitation process, providing the Fire Chief or the Fire
        Chief's Designee has researched al~plionsalternatives and has determined
        that the decision is based on the best value for the District.

     c. Except as otherwise provided herein, any Special Service contract or
        agreement as defined herein, wl:liG!Hswhere the annual aggregate cost is
        expected to exceed $100,000 shall be solicited through the formal solicitation
        process.

4.   Purchases up to $45,000

     a. These purchases are known as "Best Judgment Purchases." This means that
        individual purchases for personal property or services up to $45,000 can be
        completed using the purchaser's best judgment. Informal bidding is
        encouraged at this level by getting quotes over the phone or email (preferred),
        or by using the Internet to document competitor pricing and make sure the
        District is receiving the best value. A purchase order is required for any
        transaction over $1,000.

     b. Flor those purchases of personal property and services that do not require the
        formal or informal solicitation process, staff must research and evaluate to
        make sure the District is getting the best value, ensuring that the best price is
         obtained for the particular goods or service taking into consideration the Itotal
        ,QGost of Qownership (TCO).This can be achieved by obtaining, if available, a
        minimum of three comparison bid evaluations using verbal and/or written
         quotations, or any other method of obtaining comparison costing or estimates.

5.    Informal Solicitation Process (Purchases totaling $45,000.01 to $100,000.00)

     a. When the expenditure required for the purchase of personal property or
        services is in excess of $45,000.00 and up to $100,000.00, procurement of the
        personal property or services must be obtained through the following informal
        solicitation process:

          I.   Obtain and complete the Informal Bid/Proposal Form found on Metro
               Apps > Documents.

                                                                               5jPage




                                                                                             P25
                                                              Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                              01.010.03
                                                                             G8,'10121l23
                                                                             06/12/2025
        II.    Obtain at least three (3) written quotes. If three (3) quotes were not
               acquired, a detailed explanation detailing why the required number of
               quotes were not obtained must be provided on the Informal Bid/Proposal
               Form. This exception may be approved at the discretion of the
               Purchasing Agent if it is determined that the making of the purchase
               without three (3) quotes is reasonably necessary for the conduct of
               District business.
       Ill.    Enter a requisition for purchase into the District's financial system. A
               completed Informal Bid/Proposal Form and all quotes (if applicable) shall
               be attached to the requisition for Purchasing to review. Upon approval
               from Purchasing, a purchase order will be issued.

6.   Formal Solicitation Process (Purchases Exceeding $100,000)

     a. Except as otherwise provided herein, when the expenditure required for the
        purchase of personal property or services exceeds $100,000, the District shall
        notify Purchasing to initiate the formal solicitation process. Contract shall be
        awarded to the most responsive and responsible bidder offering the best value
        to the District, and is subject to approval by the Board.

     b. Purchasing will conduct all correspondence with suppliers iAvolvinttriGeS-OF
        quetatieAS-ferduring the formal SGliGitatieASsolicitation process. Only
        Purchasing is authorized to release formal solicitation information related to
        vendor prices, quotations, questions, or related information.

7.   Exception to Bidding

     a. Purchases may be allowed without competitive bidding under the following
        circumstances:

         I.    When the aggregate or cumulative price to be paid under the purchase
               contract is eAe--mmGf€4...tiloosafld-aellafS--($100,000➔ or less, unless
               otherwise required by state law.
         II.   In the event of an Emergency.
        Ill.   When the following types of personal property or services are being
               acquired, obtained, rented or leased:

               A. Advertising;
               B. Books, recordings, motion picture films, subscriptions;
               C. Election supplies;
               D. Insurance;
               E. Public utility services;
               F. Travel services;
               G. Property or services provided by or through other governmental
                  agencies; or obtainable from suppliers which have in force a current

                                                                              6 I Page




                                                                                            P2 6
                                                                   Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                   01.010.03
                                                                                  08~
                                                                                  06/12/2025
                    contract with another governmental agency for the same item or
                    service
                 H. Property or services the price of which is fixed by law.

          IV.    When a patented or proprietary item is being purchased (including
                 single/sole source).
          V.     When the branch Deputy Chief and Purchasing Agent determine that
                 making of a purchase without competitive proposals is reasonably
                 necessary for the conduct of District business.

     b. Exception to Formal Solicitation Process:
           I.    If purchase does not qualify for one of the exceptions to competitive
                 bidding detailed in Section 7, Part a., i-iii, a request for an exception from
                 the formal solicitation process shall be made. Requests for an exception
                 from the formal solicitation process shall follow this process:
                 A. Fill out the Request for Exception to Formal Solicitation Process Form
                    and Disclosure Statement found on Metro Apps > Documents
                 B. Submit completed form and any applicable supporting documentation
                    to branch Deputy Chief and Purchasing for review and preliminary
                    approval.
                 C. Submit to Board of Directors for review and approval.

8.   Request for Qualification Process

     a.     When the District is seeking to establish a pre-qualified list of
            suppliers/vendors for the purpose of streamlining future formal solicitation
            processes for similar or comparable goods or services the pre-qualified list
            must be established through the following Request for Qualifications (RFQ)
            process.

            I.   Purchasing shall work with the divisional budget officer to prepare an
                 RFQ document that describes the type of goods or services and iaemtmes
                 identify the minimum qualifications required for a supplier/vendor to be
                 eligible to respond to future formal solicitations for that type of goods or
                 services.

           II.   Only Purchasing is authorized to issue RFQ documents. Purchasing will
                 conduct all correspondence with suppliers related to the RFQ process.

          Ill.   A pre-qualified list of suppliers/vendors may be established at the
                 conclusion of the RFQ process to include suppliers/vendors with
                 demonstrated qualifications and experience. These suppliers/vendors
                 will become eligible to respond to future formal solicitations for similar or
                 comparable goods or services.

9.   Contracts


                                                                                    7IPage




                                                                                                  P2 7
                                                                   Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                    01.010.03
                                                                                   08.'10.'2023
                                                                                   06/12/2025

      a. When the Board determines that it is in the public interest, the District may
         contract with any other public or private agency for fire protection services,
         rescue services, emergency medical services, hazardous material emergency
         response services, ambulance services, and any other emergency services for
         the protection of lives and property.
      I
      b. All contracts for consulting services shall require review by Legal Counsel.

      c. All contracts for goods and services Uf)-towhich exceed the informal bid
         threshold ~ 0 0 -shall require the review and approval of Purchasing.


10.   Conflict of Interest

      a. The Fire Chief, Fire Chief's Designee, or Board of Directors shall ensure that
         any purchase of any Personal Property or Special Services shall be in
         compliance with California Government Code Section 87100 et. seq.,
         pertaining to Conflict of Interest, which slates:

                 A public official at any level of state or local government shall not make,
                 participate in making, or in any way attempt to use the public official's
                 official position to influence a governmental decision in which the official
                 knows or has reason to know the official has a financial interest.

11.   Bid Splitting Prohibited

          a. It is unlawful, for the purpose of evading any requirements herein, to split or
             separate into smaller units of purchase any purchase covered by this policy.

12.       Former District Employees

          a. For the three (3) year period from the date the former District employee left
             District employment, no former District employee may enter into or participate
             in a contract in which they engaged in any of the negotiations, transactions,
             planning arrangements or any part of the decision-making process relevant to
             the contract while employed in any capacity by the District.

13.       Public Projects

          £,_The District has elected to become subject to the procedures outlined in the
             Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Act (Act), Public Contract Code
             (PCC) 22000 et seq ..
      )L_Public projects of sooy-loollSaREl-eellafs-{$eQ75,00(» or less may be performed
         by the employees of the District by force account, by negotiated contract, or by
         purchase order.
          g,_Public projects of lwe-l'll:lflereEHl'lel!SaRG-Gellaf&{$~QQ220,00(» or less may be
             let to contract by informal procedures as set forth in the Act. A notice inviting
             informal bids shall be circulated using one or both of the following alternatives:

                                                                                    8IPage




                                                                                                  P28
                                                                   Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                     01.010.03
                                                                                   08!10!2023
                                                                                   06/12/2025
           I.     f:B-:The District shall maintain a list of qualified contractors. identified
                  according to categories of work. All contractors on the list for the category
                  of work being bid shall be mailed. faxed. or emailed a notice inviting
                  informal bids unless the product or service is proprietary. All mailing of
                  notices to contractors pursuant to this subdivision shall be completed not
                  less than 10 calendar days before bids are due.
          II.     @-The public agency may elect to mail. fax. or email a notice inviting
                  informal bids to all construction trade journals specified in Section 22036.
          Ill.    The notice inviting infom,al bids shall describe the project in general
                  terms and how to obtain more detailed information about the project. and
                  state the time and place for the submission of bids. Additional contractors
                  and/or construction trade journals may be notified at the discretion of the
                  District. Purchasing is authorized to award informal contracts pursuant to
                  PCC 22034. If all bids received are in excess of $220,000, the Board
                  may, by adoption of a resolution by a four-fifths vote, award the contract,
                  at $235,000 or less. to the lowest responsible bidder. if it determines the
                  District's cost estimate was reasonable.
      L    Public projects of more than twa-l:l~mdmd lhousaRd--eollaf6-{$:WQ220.000)
           shall. except as otherwise provided in the Act, be let to contract by formal
           bidding procedure. Per PCC 22037, a notice inviting formal bids shall state the
           time and place for the receiving and opening of sealed bids and distinctly
           describe the project. The notice shall be published at least fourteen (14)
           calendar days before the dale of opening the bids in a newspaper of general
           circulation, printed and published in the jurisdiction of the District. The notice
           inviting formal bids shall also be sent electronically by either fax or e-mail and
           mailed to all construction trade journals specified in PCC 22036. The notice
           shall be sent at least fifteen (15) calendar days before the date of opening the
           bids. -SusR-fer-mal-aAd-iAfom1al-biddiA!J-Pf<'lGeElures-ar-e--flutliAed~ n-ll:te
           Galifomia-GovemflleAI-Gede,-GOmfllMGiRg-1,vilh-SestioR-2-200Q.
      a,e.    Public pProject bidding thresholds stated in this policy shall automatically
          adjust as statute changes.
      lht._ln cases of gemergency when repair or replacements are necessary,...!!}g
           Board may proceed at once to repair a District facility without adopting
           specifications or giving notice for bids. If a notice for bids will not be given. the
           District shall follow the Emergency Contracting Procedures detailed in the
           California Public Contract Code, Section 22050.

14.   District Procurement Card

      a. The District issues procurement cards to certain individuals for District-specific
         purchases. All purchases made with the District procurement card must meet
         ALL procurement requirements stated in this document AND closely adhere to
         the District's procurement card policy, which includes these provisions:

             I.   District procurement cards may only be used as a purchase option for
                  small purchases up to $1000, when items are not available from
                  Logistics.

                                                                                     9IPage




                                                                                                   P29
                                                             Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                              01.010.03
                                                                             08!1012023
                                                                             06/12/2025
           II.   District procurement cards may only be used for official business and
                 may not be used for personal purchases under any circumstances.
          Ill.   District procurement cards are only issued to cardholders who have
                 certified that they understand and will comply with all related District
                 policies.
          IV.    District procurement cards may be suspended or revoked due to misuse.
          V.     District procurement cards shall not be used for grant funded purchases.
                 Any exceptions to this must be approved by the grant management team
                 prior to making a purchase.

~      Gifts of Public Funds

       a. District employees share responsibility for the proper fiscal stewardship of
          District resources and are prohibited from making purchases that constitute a
          Gift of Public Funds. Any expenditure must be reasonably related to a public
          purpose consistent with the jurisdiction of the District. The amount of the
          purchase and/or the cost to the District is not relevant. even minimal
          expenditures can be considered a gift if not related to a public purpose.- Before
          making a purchase that may possibly be deemed a Gift of Public Funds. District
          staff should consult with Glepaftment-of- Finance Division staff. Examples of
          impermissible purchases include:

            I. Gift cards. gift baskets. flowers. coffee mugs, and other non-cash gifts.
               such as a thank-you gifts to paid consultants. veluRteef§:dluest speakers.
               or District employees.
           II. Gifts for employee birthdays. weddings. anniversaries. baby showers. and
               similar celebratory occasions.
          Ill. Expenses associated with farewell and retirement celebrations.
          IV. Bereavement or sympathy gifts and flowers.
           V. Promotional giveaways, tl:!at-afe-flet-inGiaeRtal-eHRiAimal cost (e.g .. such
              as I-shirts. -aflQ-Coffee mugs, or similar items).
          V I. Incidental travel costs. including fuel. parking. transport, or lodging
               expenses::effleASes-f{¾f-aFOviain{j-t,-anspoflalioR--te for off-duty employees
               (unless pre-approved by their manager). family members. and guests to
               tReallending District events and ceremonies.

       b. In accordance with the respective policies. eepar~ments--and- divisions may
          provide meals. refreshments. and tangible award items to employees.
          volunteers. and other attendees as specified in those policies.


4-a,.1§,_Capital Asset Policy

       a. The District has a Capital Asset Policy to provide a mechanism for controlling
          property acquisition. availability, transfer, disposal and proper documentation.
          Specifics can be found in the District's Capital Asset Policy.

                                                                                 101P age




                                                                                                P30
                                                                Purchasing and Contracting
                                                                                01.010.03
                                                                               08.'10/2023
                                                                               06/12/2025

~.1L_4&.----Purchases Made with Federal Grant Funds

        a. Grant Purchases shall follow all procurement standards as outlined in 2 Code
           of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 200, specifically sections 200.317 through
           200.326. If this policy deviates from the Federal procurement standards as set
           forth in 2 CFR 200 in any way, the District shall follow the more restrictive
           standard for all procurements involving Federal funds.

References
1. California Constitution, Article XVI

2. California Public Contract Code

3. Saornmenle MelF013elilan Fim District Policy - Capital Asset Policy

4. SammeAte-MelFepelila&f.ife-District Policy - Commendations and Awards Program
      Policy

5. Sammeme-MelfGoolilaR--Fire--Dlstrict Policy - Meal and Refreshment Policy


-7-cL__SammeRte Metropelilan Fii:e-District Policy - Procurement Card Polley

1!,7.   SaoFaFRenlo MelFopelilan FiFe District Policy - Years of Service Award Policy

9-:8.   Government Code Section 8314

40,L_Grants Management Procedures 05-2021

-1-1-c-Sacramento County Purchasing Code
.1!L




                                                                               11 IPage




                                                                                             P31
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I
                       10545 Armstrong Avenue. Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859--4300 • Fax (916)859-3720

lf;1;J~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief




 DATE:             June 26, 2025

 TO:               Board of Directors

 SUBJECT:          Disclosure of material expenditure - Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance -
                   Safety National Casualty Corporation - $537,745.00.

                                                   TOPIC

  Staff requests the Board of Director's approval to purchase Excess Workers' Compensation
  Insurance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

                                                 SUMMARY

  Staff will be expending funds to purchase Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance payable to
  Safety National Casualty Corporation in the amount of $537,745.00.

                                               DISCUSSION

  USI Insurance Services provide the District's insurance brokerage services and manage the
  marketing of the District's Excess Workers' Compensation Liability Insurance. This type of
  coverage provides the District with .additional insurance coverage in the event of a catastrophic
  workers' compensation loss that could occur in excess of our self-insured retention (the portion
  the District would pay before the insurance pays). For these quotes, self-insured retentions of
  $4.0 million per occurrence were selected, consistent with limits chosen last year. Several
  carriers were contacted during marketing, including Midwest Employers, Chubb Insurance, and
  Arch Insurance, and they either declined due to the nature of the exposure, no longer write
  standalone fire districts, or they couldn't be competitive with Safety National Casualty
  Corporation. The District's rate with Safety National is decreasing by 5% from the previous year;
  However, due to an estimated 12% increase in payroll for FY 25/26 compared to FY 24/25, our
  premium is increasing. Should our payroll be lower than expected, the difference in funds will be
  returned to the District. Therefore, Safety National Casualty Corporation was chosen as the
  carrier for the District's Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance needs.

                                              FISCAL IMPACT

  The fiscal impact is $537,745.00. Funds sufficient to meet this obligation are budgeted in the
  Preliminary Budget for 2025/2026.




                                                                                                                      P32
                                 RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Board of Directors authorize payment of $537,745.00 to Safety
National Casualty Corporation for Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance.


Submitted by:                                        Approved by:


                                                     Adam House (Jun 20, 2025 10:01 POD

Joseph Fiorica                                       Adam A. House
Deputy Chief, Administration                         Fire Chief




                                                                                          P33
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l       I
                    10545 Armstrong Avenue . Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3720

~ul~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief



 DATE:          June 26, 2025

 TO:            Board of Directors

 SUBJECT:       Disclosure of material expenditure - General/Property/Liability Commercial
                Insurance - Fire Agencies Insurance Risk Authority (FAIRA) for the FY 25/26 in
                the amount of $3,031,655.00


                                                TOPIC

 Staff requests the Board of Director's approval to purchase General/Property/Liability
 commercial insurance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

                                             SUMMARY

 Staff will be expending funds to purchase General I Property and Liability commercial insurance
 to Fire Agencies Insurance Risk Authority (FAIRA) in the amount of $3,031,655.00.


                                            DISCUSSION

 The District's commercial insurance incorporates the following areas of coverage: property,
 automobile, and general liability. This is an all-encompassing package that provides coverage of
 risk in several areas, including employment practices, employment benefits, and management
 liability. The District entered a three-year contract with the Fire Agencies Insurance Risk
 Authority (FAIRA) during FY 23/24, and FAIRA remains the District's current insurance provider
 for the third year.

 The insurance renewal premium for FY 25/26 with FAIRA is $3,031,655.00. This represents a
 10% increase from FY 24/25, driven by market conditions that dictate higher premiums for
 insurance services, as well as various other faclors, including an increase in wildfires across
 California, an unstable political climate, and increased litigation throughout the state.

 USI Insurance Services (District's brokerage) is recommending that the District continue to use
 FAIRA as the commercial insurance provider for FY 25/26.

                                          FISCAL IMPACT

 The fiscal impact is $3,031,655. Funds sufficient to meet this obligation are budgeted in the
 Preliminary Budget for FY 25/26.




                                                                                                                P34
                                 RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Board of Directors authorize a payment of $3,031 ,655 to Fire
Agencies Insurance Risk Authority (FAIRA) for commercial insurance.



Submitted by:                                        Approved by:


                                                     Adam House (Jun 20, 2025 09:58 PDT)

Joseph Fiorica                                       Adam A. House
Deputy Chief, Administration                         Fire Chief




                                                                                           P35
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief




   DATE:          June 26, 2025

  TO:             Board of Directors

   SUBJECT:       Measure O General Obligation Bond Issuance



                                                  TOPIC

   Measure O General Obligation Bond - Competitive Pricin·g Results


                                             BACKGROUND

   On November 5, . 2024, Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (District) voters approved
   Measure 0, authorizing the District to issue up to $415 million in GO bonds for capital projects,
   which the District plans to issue and commit over the next 1O years. The District anticipates
   three GO bond issuances; the first early in fiscal year (FY) 2025/26, followed by bond
   issuances anticipated in FY 2028/29 and FY 2031/32.

   The proceeds from the issuance and sale of GO bonds will be used for the construction,
   expansion, reconstruction , rehabilitation, replacement, furnishing, and equipping of fire
   facilities; the acquisition or lease of real property for fire facilities; and the acquisition of fire
   and emergency medical vehicles, apparatus, and capital equipment.
                                                         I

                                              DISCUSSION

   On June 16, 2025, the District's municipal advisor, KNN Public Finance, facilitated the sale
   of $160 million in Measure O bonds. The competitive sale yielded eight responses, with
   each bidder specifying a bond structure comprising a single "true interest cost" (a blended
   cost of borrowing that factors in the time value of money). The winning bidder, Bank of
   America, offered a true interest cost bid of 4.3689%, approximately 8 basis points (.08%)
   lower than the next best bid and 33 basis points lower than the highest bid. Over the life of
   the bond the savings to the taxpayer from selecting Bank of America, relative to the highest
   bid, is $12.2 million.

   KNN Public Finance credited the District's "AAA" rating from Fitch and "AA" rating from
   Standard and Poor's with contributing to the high number of bid responses and competitive
   pricing. Additionally, the timing of the sale, occurring during a period of relative market
   stability and the absence of any other competitive bond transactions from California on the
   date of sale, contributed to the successful outcome.

   The District will close the sale and receive the bond proceeds on July 2, 2025.

                                 Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                            P36
                                      FISCAL IMPACT

There is no fiscal impact associated with this presentation item.


                                    RECOMMENDATION

This is a presentation item and there is no staff recommendation.


Submitted by:



Dave O'Toole                                       Adam House
Chief Financial Officer                            Fire Chief




                                                                    P37
                 MEASURE 0
        GENERAL OBLIGATION BOND SALE .
                    - June 26,, 2025 -



                    Presented by:
                    Dave O'Toole
                Chief Financial Officer



""C
c..:>
(X)
~. .~\.'1.'t0 METHop
,:J,-~~~
                 •


   "'· EY .:• '°"'
                  :i..o<"_,,.,
                            ~

                                           MEASURE O GENERAL OBLIGATION BOND SALE
         • F'IR:E: •


            ►         Eight Financial Institutions Provided Bids

                                 4.75%

                                 4.70%I
                                 :::: I--
                                 4.55%
                                 4.50%   PIii
                                 4.45%

                                 4.40%

                                 4.35%

                                 4.30%

                                 4.25%

                                 4.20%
                                            BofA       Jefferies    Morgan      Tmist         J.P.         RBC          Wdls     RobertW.
                                          Securities     I.LC      Stanley &   Securities    Morgan       Capitru     Fargo Bank  B:aird
                                                                      Co.                   Securities   1-fru:kets




""Cl
c:..:,
co
~..
~...,,~~


    m.
                     .
        ~~\\~O METRo,o.
                 .
           it ~- "
                     lo..~~

                          00
                               ~


                                       MEASURE O GENERAL OBLIGATION BOND SALE
           F'IR:E:


            ►        True Interest Cost Comparison by Bidder:
                                                •   -· ··- -- -
                                                                   True
                                                                  Interest      Difference in
                                                                    Cost      T.I.C. Compared
                                       Bidder                     (T.I.C.)        to Winner
                                   1   BofA Securities            4.368918%
                                   2   Jefferies ILC              4.448970%       0.0801%
                                   3   Morgan Stanley & Co.       4.472200%       0.1033%
                                   4   Truist Securities          4.516115%       0.1472%
                                   5   J.P. Morgan Securities     4.518593%       0.1497%
                                   6   RBC Capital Markets        4.534876%       0.1660%
                                   7   Wells Fargo Bank           4.549910%       0.1810%
                                   8   Robert W. Baird            4.700884%       0.3320%




'"C
.i:,.
0
~..,#~
~

• m.
                    .
         ~~\\10 METRoA



            ~ _:.
                    ..~~
                    '
                        000
                              ~

                                             MEASURE O GENERAL OBLIGATION BOND SALE
         • PIR£




                                              Bond Amount:          $    160,000,000.00
                                              Total Interest:       $    131,451,578.03
                                              Total Debt Service:   $    291,451,578.03

             Key Dates
                    ► June 30, 2025:              Deadline to provide debt service calculation to Sacramento
                                  County for Fiscal Year 2025/26 tax assessments
                    ► July 2, 2025: Sale complete; proceeds of bonds received by District

                    ► August 5, 2025: Deadline to provide debt service calculation to Placer
                                  County for Fiscal Year 2025/26 tax assessments
                        ►         February 1, 2026: First bond payment due



""C
.j::,,
_.
P42
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I
                       10545 Armstrong Avenue. Mather, California 95655. Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916)859-3720

~UJ~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief


 DATE:             June 26, 2025

 TO:               Board of Directors

  SUBJECT:         Disclosure of material expenditure - Excess General Liability Insurance -
                   Vantage Risk Specialty Insurance Company for $307,992.30 and Westchester
                   Surplus Lines Insurance Company for $215,439.84.

                                                  TOPIC

  Staff requests the Board of Director's approval to purchase Excess General Liability Insurance
  for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

                                                SUMMARY

  Staff will be expending funds to purchase Excess General Liability to both Vantage Risk
  Specialty Insurance Company for $307,992.30 and Westchester Surplus Lines Insurance
  Company for $215,439.84.

                                               DISCUSSION

  The District is currently in contract with FAIRA for it's General, Property and Liability •
  Commercial insurance package with coverage totaling in $10 million. The District's insurance
  brokerage, USI Insurance Services, made a recommendation that the District purchase an
  Excess Policy to mitigate its overall risk should the District suffer a catastrophic event. Several
  carriers were contacted during marketing to provide a quote for the District's Excess General
  Liability Insurance, including Berkley Public Entity, Arch Insurance, and Berkley Custom, who all
  declined to quote.

  The two companies that provided the District with quotes were Vantage Risk Specialty
  Insurance Company and Westchester Surplus Lines Insurance Company. Each of these
  companies will provide the District with a self-insured retention of $5 million. Vantage Risk
  Specialty Insurance Company will be the District's primary provider, and in the event that this
  insurance were exhausted, the secondary coverage with Westchester Surplus Lines Insurance
  Company would be utilized. Neither company was able to provide the full $10 million
  recommendation as a standalone policy, which is why both companies are being recommended
  to carry the District's Excess General Liability Insurance needs.


                                             FISCAL IMPACT

  The fiscal impact is $523,432.14. Funds sufficient to meet this obligation are budgeted in the
  Preliminary Budget for 2025/2026.




                                                                                                                    P43
                                 RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Board of Directors authorize payment of $307,992.30 to Vantage
Risk Specialty Insurance Company and $215,439.84 to Westchester Surplus Lines Insurance
Company for Excess General Liability Insurance.




Submitted by:                                         Approved by:


                                                      Adam House (Jun 20, 2025 10:00 PDT)

Joseph Fiorica                                        Adam A. House
Deputy Chief, Administration                          Fire Chief




                                                                                            P44
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
    l       I

                    10545 Armstrong Avenue • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916)859-3720
 ~l;j~
ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief




DATE:           June 26, 2025

TO:             Board of Directors

SUBJECT:        Sacramento Local Agency Formation Commission (LAFCo) - Nominations
                for Special District Commissioners


                                             SUMMARY

 Nominations are open for the Special District Representatives to Sacramento LAFCo,
 Regular and Alternate Seats, to serve on the LAFCo Commission.

                                            DISCUSSION

 The Sacramento Local Agency Formation Commission (LAFCo) is seeking nominations
 for the regular voting seat. Currently, Director Gay Jones holds the District Member
 seat, full voting member, and her term will expire on December 31, 2025. Director Jones
 wishes to continue serving in this role with a term of office of four years, which will begin
 January 1, 2026.

 Nominations must be submitted in writing no later than 5:00 p.m. on July 31, 2025.

                                      RECOMMENDATIONS

 Consider nominating Director Jones of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's
 Board of Directors for the Special District Commissioner seat as a full voting member to
 serve a 4-year term.


 Submitted By:



 Marni Rittburg,o~

 Attachment (1) - Special District Representatives to Sacramento LAFCo Nominations
 for Special District Commissioners Packet




                                                                                                               P45
                            SACRAMENTO LOCAL AGENCY FORMATION COMMISSION
                                        1112 I Street, Suite 100 • Sacramento, CA 95814 • (916) 874-6458
                                                                www.saclafco.org




                                              MEMO

DATE:           June 20, 2025


TO:             Special District Presiding Officer

FROM:           Jose C. Henriquez, Executive Offic"eW
                Sacramento Local Agency Formation Commission

SUBJECT:         Election of Special District Representatives to Sacramento LAFCo
                 Nominations for Special District Commissioners (Two Regular and One
                 Alternate Seats)

The Special District Selection Committee is electing representatives to serve on LAFCo.
The seats are:
•   Regular (Voting) Special District Representative: Serves on the Commission as a
    full, voting member. In this election, two seats are open:
      o A four (4) year term
      o A two (2) year term to finish out the term of former Commissioner Lindsey Carter
•   Alternate Special District Representative: Serves on LAFCo in a non-voting capacity;
    however, the Alternate can vote whenever one of the Regular members is absent,
    recused or ineligible to vote. The person elected to this seat will serve a new 4-year
    term.
Newly-elected commissioners will begin their respective terms in January 1, 2026.
Due to the size of the Special District Selection Committee, it has been difficult to establish
a quorum when meeting in person. Therefore, pursuant to the provisions of Government
Code §56332(f), the Executive Officer has determined that the business of the Special
District Selection Committee will be conducted in writing.




                                              Commissioners
                 Rich Desmond, Pat Hume, County Members .. Rosario Rodriguez, Altemate
      Lisa Kaplan, Mat Prat/on, City Members ~• Phil Pluckebaum, Dr. Jayna Karpinski-Costa, Altemates
                          Chris Little, Public Member •• Timothy Mwphy, Altemate
                   Gay Jones, Vacant, Special District Members =• Char/ea Moore, Alternate
                                                    Staff
              Jose C. Henrfquez, Executive Officer p■ Desirae Fox, Kristi Grabow, Policy Analyst
                             Nancy Miller, DeeAnne Gillick, Commission Counsel
                                                                                                           P46
SD Selection Committee Nomination Memo
June 20, 2025
Page 2 o/2

Special District Commissioners, Regular and Alternate Seats
The Regular, 4-year voting seat is currently held by Gay Jones of Sacramento Metropolitan
Fire Protection District. Her term will expire on December 31 5 1, 2025. The Alternate seat
is held by Charlea Moore from the Rio Linda Elverta Recreation & Park District. Her term
will also expire on December 31st, 2025. Each new seat has a term of office of four years.
A second Regular seat has opened because of former Commissioner Carter's resignation.
The person elected to this seat will finish out her term. This seat has a term of two years.
Nomination Requirements
The nomination period is now at 41 days; all nominations are due in writing on or before
5:00 pm on July 31st, 2025. Nominations received after that date cannot be accepted and
will be returned to your District. A nominee must be a Director from an independent special
district within Sacramento County. To be valid, all nominations must include the following:
1)   Name and district of the nominee;
2)   Name of the nominating district; and
3)   Signature of the Presiding Officer of the District's Board of Directors or the record of
     nomination made by majority vote at an official meeting of your District's Board
     (Resolution or Minute Order can be attached), certified by the Board Secretary, Board
     Clerk or District Manager.
Please submit a statement of qualifications (not to exceed one page) for each nominee.
Special District Representative Election (to be held after August 11 2025)
Once the nomination period is closed, the Executive Officer will prepare and distribute, by
certified mail or by email, one ballot listing valid candidates and voting instructions to each
Independent Special District. The one-page statement of qualifications, if provided, will be
included as submitted. The ballot will include the names of all nominees submitted for these
positions. The Districts must return their ballot to the Executive Officer by the date specified
in the voting instructions, which will be at least 30 days from the date the ballots were
distributed. Any ballot received after the specified date will not be valid.
Within 14 days of the election date, the Executive Officer will announce the winner of the
most votes.
If you have any questions, please contact the LAFCo office at (916) 87 4-6458.


Enclosure: Election Nomination Ballot
             Government Code §56332




                          Sacramento Local Agency Formation Commission
                                                                                                   P47
■■
~            ~            SACRAMENTO LOCAL AGENCY FORMATION COMMISSION
_A-~              ()                 1112 I Street, Suite 100 • Sacramento, CA 95814 • (916) 874-6458
   LAFCo _____________                                      w_w_w .s_a_
                                                                      c l_
                                                                         afi_
                                                                            co_.o_;
                                                                                  rg
                                                                                   ::,.___ _ __ __ _ __   _



                             SPECIAL DISTRICT NOMINATION

          Special District Representative to LAFCo, Regular and Alternate

           Position                     Nominee's Name                   Ork1inatinQ District



SIGNATURE OF PRESIDING OFFICER: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                  (Original Signature Required)
Note:     Presiding Officer is the Chair/President. Any other signature invalidates
          this ballot, unless accompanied by Meeting Minutes designating an
          alternate.

PRINTED NAME OF PRESIDING OFFICER: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                          (Required)

NAME OF NOMINATING DISTRICT: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __


MINUTES ATTACHED (Optional):                           Yes □           No □


NOMINEE IS RUNNING FOR                    Regular (Voting):          □ 4-year          □ 2-year
POSITION:                                                           term               term
                                          Alternate □


Attest:


 District Secretary, Clerk or General Manager

                       Nominations must be received by LAFCO before
                                 5:00 p.m. on July 31, 2025

                                             Return to:

          Sacramento LAFCo (clerk@saclafco.org or at the addr~ss above)

                                              Commissioners
               Rich Desmond, Pat Hume, County Members " Rosario Rodriguez, Altemate
    Lisa Kaplan, Mat Pratton, City Members • Phil Pluckebaum, Dr. Jayna Karpinski-Costa, Alternates
                        Chris Little, Public Member •• Timothy Murphy, Alternate
                 Gay Jones, Vacant, Special District Members ■■ Char/ea Moore, Alternate
                                                   Staff
            Jose C. Henriquez, Executive Officer ■■ Desirae Fox, Kristi Grabow, Policy Analyst
                           Nancy Miller, DeeAnne Gillick, Commission Counsel
                                                                                                              P48
GOVERNMENT CODE· GOV
  TITLE 5. LOCAL AGENCIES [50001 - 57607) ( Title 5 added by Stats. 1949, Ch. 81. )
     DIVISION 3. CORTESE-KNOX-HERTZBERG LOCAL GOVERNMENT REORGANIZATION ACT OF 2000 [56000 • 57550) ( Heading of Division 3
amended by Stats. 2001, Ch. 388, Sec. 1. )

          PART2. LOCAL AGENCY FORMATION COMMISSION [56300-56430) ( Part 2 added by Stats. 1985, Ch. 541, Sec. 3.)

CHAPTER 2. Formation of Commission and Selection of Commissioners [56325 - 56337) ( Chapter 2 added by Stats. 1985, Ch. 541, Sec. 3. )

56332. (a) The independent special district selection committee shall consist of the presiding officer of the legislative body of each independent
special district. However, if the presiding officer of an independent special district is unable to participate in a meeting or election of the
independent special district selection committee, the legislative body of the district may appoint one of its members as an alternate to
participate In the selection committee in the presiding officer's place. Those districts shall include districts located wholly within the county and
those containing territory within the county representing SO percent or more of the assessed value of taxable property of the district, as shown
on the last equalized county assessment roll. Each member of the committee shall be entitled to one vote for each independent special district
of which he or she Is the presiding officer or his or her alternate as designated by the governing body. Members representing a majority of the
eligible districts shall constitute a quorum.
(b) The executive officer shall call and give written notice of all meetings of the members of the selection committee. A meeting shall be called
and held under one of the following circumstances:
  (1) Whenever the executive officer anticipates that a vacancy will occur within the next 90 days among the members or alternate member
  representing independent special districts on the commission.

  (2) Whenever a vacancy exists among the members or alternate member representing Independent special districts upon the commission.

  (3) Upon receipt of a written request by one or more members of the selection committee representing districts having 10 percent or more of
  the assessed value of taxable property within the county, as shown on the last equalized county assessment roll.

  (4) Upon the adoption of a resolution of Intention pursuant to Section 56332.5.

  (5) Upon receipt of a written request by one or more members of the selection committee notifying the executive officer of the need to
  appoint a member representing Independent special districts on an oversight board pursuant to paragraph (3) of subdivision (j) of Section
  34179 of the Health and Safety Code.

(c) The selection committee shall appoint two regular members and one alternate member to the commission. The members so appointed shall
be elected or appointed members of the legislative body of an Independent special district residing within the county but shall not be members
of the legislative body of a city or county. If one of the regular district members is absent from a commission meeting or disqualifies himself or
herself from participating in a meeting, the alternate district member may serve and vote in place of the regular district member for that
meeting. Service on the commission by a regular district member shall not disqualify, or be cause for disqualification of, the member from
acting on proposals affecting the special district on whose legislative body the member serves. The special district selection committee may, at
the time it appoints a member or alternate, provide that the member or alternate is disqualified from voting on proposals affecting the district
on whose legislative body the member serves.
  (1) The executive officer may prepare and deliver a call for nominations to each eligible district. The presiding officer, or his or her alternate
  as designated by the governing body, may respond In writing by the date specified in the call for nominations, which date shall be at least 30
  days from the date on which the executive officer malled the call for nominations to the eligible district.

  (2) At the end of the nominating period, if only one candidate Is nominated for a vacant seat, that candidate shall be deemed appointed. This
  paragraph shall be operative only if the written notice of the meeting provided pursuant to subdivision (b) discloses that, if nominations are
  received for only one candidate by the end of the nominating period, the candidate shall be deemed appointed and the meeting may be
  cancelled.

 (d) If the office of a regular district member becomes vacant, the alternate member may serve and vote in place of the former regular district
 member until the appointment and qualification of a regular district member to fill the vacancy.
 (e) A majority of the independent special district selection committee may determine to conduct the committee's business by mail, including
 holding all elections by mailed ballot, pursuant to subdivision (f).
 (f) If the independent special district selection committee has determined to conduct the committee's business by mail or if the executive officer
 determines that a meeting of the special district selection committee is not feasible, the executive office r shall conduct the business of the
 committee by mail. Elections by mail shall be conducted as provided In this subdivision.
   (1) The executive officer shall prepare and deliver a call for nominations to each eligible district. The presiding officer, or his or her alternate
   as designated by the governing body, may respond In writing by the date specified In the call for nominations, which date shall be at least 30
   days from t he date op which the executive officer mailed the call for nominations to the eligible district.

   (2) At the end of the nominating period, if only one candidate Is nominated for a vacant seat, that candidate shall be deemed appointed. I f
   two or more candidates are nominated, the executive officer shall prepare and deliver one ballot and voting instructions to each eligible


                                                                                                                                                   P49
 district. The ballot shall include the names of all nominees and the office for which each was nominated. Each presiding officer, or his or her
 alternate as designated by the governing body, shall return the ballot to the executive officer by the date specified in the voting instructions,
 which date shall be at least 30 days from the date on which the executive officer mailed the ballot to the eligible district.

 (3) The call for nominations, ballots, and voting Instructions shall be delivered by certified mail to each eligible district. As an alternative to
 the delivery by certified mail, the executive officer may t ransmit materials by electronic mail. All notices and election materials shall be
 addressed to the presiding officer, care of the clerk of the district.

 (4) Nominations and ballots may be returned to the executive officer by electronic mail.

 (5) Each returned nomination and ballot shall be signed by the presiding officer or his or her alternate as designated by the governing body of
 the eligible district.

 (6) For an election to be valid, at least a quorum of the special districts must submit valid ballots. The candidate receiving the most votes
 shall be elected, unless another procedure has been adopted by the selection committee. Any nomination and ballot received by the executive
 officer after the date specified is Invalid, provided, however, that if a quorum of ballots Is not received by that date, the executive officer sha ll
 extend the date to submit ballots by 60 days and notify all districts of the extension. If ballots from a quorum of the districts have not been
 received at the end of the 60-day extension period, the executive officer shall extend the period to return ballots for a length of time at his or
 her discretion until a quorum ls achieved, unless another procedure has been adopted by the selection committee. The executive officer shall
 announce the results of the election within seven days of the date specified.

 (7) For a vote on special district representation to be valid, at least a quorum of the special districts must submit valid ballots to the executive
 officer by the date specified In the voting instructions, which date shall be at least 30 days from the date on which the executive officer mailed
 the ballot to the eligible district. If ballots from a quorum of the districts have not been received at the end of the 60-day extension period,
 the executive officer shall extend the period to return ballots for a length of time at his or her discretion until a quorum is achieved, unless
 another procedure has been adopted by t he selection committee. By majority vote of those district representatives voting on the issue, the
 selection committee shall either accept or deny representation. The executive officer shall announce the results of the election within seven
 days of the date specified.

 (8) All election materials shall be retained by the executive officer for a period of at least six months after the announcement of the election
 results.

(g) For purposes of this section, "executive officer" means the executive officer or designee as authorized by the commission.
(Amended by Stats. 2018, Ch. 86, Sec. 6. (AB 3254) Effective January 1, 2019.)




                                                                                                                                                   P50
