                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   1           I
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702
\at;,~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                      ADOPTED
                   ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                              BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                      SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                 Thursday, January 9, 2025
                               Held at the following locations:
                           10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                      Mather, California
                                               &
                                     Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:01 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold, Jones, Rice, Saylors, Stark, Webber, and Wood. Board members
  absent: None. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  None

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Webber seconded by Jones and carried unanimously by members present
  to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.     Action Summary Minutes
         Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
         of December 12, 2024.
         Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.     Purchase Approval - Motorola Portable Radios
         Recommendation: Allow the District to procure APX 8000 Series Portable Radios
         from Motorola using the County of Sacramento Open Item Contract #WA00034181 .
         Action: Approved.

  3.     Purchase Approval - Dell Server Subscription
         Recommendation: Allow the District to procure a Dell APEX subscription for 17 servers
         using the OMNIA Partners Region 14 (ESC) - TX contract, #01-143.
         Action: Approved.
4.    Purchase Approval - Lease of 10 Zig PCs
      Recommendation: Allow the District to enter into a 3-year, 0% interest lease to procure
      the 10 Zig thin clients from ePlus Technology, Inc. using OMNIA contract #R200803.
      Action: Approved.

REPORTS

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Goold)

     President Wood welcomed everyone and stated he is looking forward to an exciting and
     productive 2025.

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -         (Chief House)

Good evening, President Goold , Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public.

Our hearts go out the communities of Southern California and all Firefighters including ours
that are fighting these fires. We are known worldwide for a robust mutual aid assistance
program. I want to ensure the public and our community that we are fully staffed here in
Sacramento. Our service delivery methods have not changed

Retirements:
Congratulations to the following members on their retirement effective in December:
      •      Captain Jordan Oakes, 13 years of service
      •      Firefighter Mark Griffin, 17 years of service
      •      Engineer Duane Walsh, 41 years of service
      •      Fire Mechanic Loren Mansel, 13 years of service
      •      Battalion Chief Grant Russell, 30 years of service
      •      Fire Mechanic Charles Mull, 25 years of service

New Hires:
Please join me in welcoming the following new hires:
      •      Michael Andrea, Fire Mechanic, effective 1/2 (not in attendance)
      •      Derek Bourque, Fire Mechanic, effective 1/2 (not in attendance)

Promotions:

Congratulations to the following members on their promotions:

       •       Battalion Chief Bryan Dupertuis, B13 C-Shift, effective 1/4. BC Dupertuis
               introduced himself to the Board and spoke on his experience at Metro Fire.

       •       Captain Kiegon List, E59 A-Shift, effective 1/6. Captain List came to the
               podium and introduced himself to the Board and spoke on his experience at
               Metro Fire.

       •       Engineer Matthew Brodigan, E108 B-Shift, effective 1/8. Engineer Brodigan
               came to the podium and introduced himself to the Board and spoke on his
               experience at Metro Fire.



1.9.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 2 of 6
Other:

I am pleased to announce that the California Fire Chiefs Association has selected me to be
their representative on the KP-CPF Cancer Research & Prevention Project Committee. I am
honored to participate on the committee and be part of the collaboration that is setting out to
better understand how being a firefighter affects cancer risk and to improve cancer
prevention measures, in addition to overall health and well-being.

Chief House invited Fire Marshal Barbie Law to the podium where she announced that she
has accepted a Deputy Chief position at the City of Victoria Fire Department in British
Columbia. The Board wished her the best and congratulated her.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

1. Statewide Deployments

2024:
Total Deployments: 31
   • OEST1 8
   • OES T3 9
   • Preposition 1
   • FEMA 1
   • Single Resource/lMT Team 12
Responded to 26 different incidents + 1 preposition in CA, 1 in OR, and 1 in FL
142 positions deployed
Average days deployed = 10
12 deployments lasted 14 or more days.

2025:
Total Deployments: 2
   • OEST1 with 1O personnel at the Palisades Incident deployed on January 7th
   • OES T3 with 4 personnel at the Eaton Incident deployed on January 8th

2. Shift Commander Spotlight

Deputy Chief Mitchell brought up BC Fong.

This spotlight highlighted Battalion 13 - C shift:
• Introduced newly promoted BC Bryan DuPertuis who introduced Chief Graf (IC) & R21.
• Chief Graf & R21 spoke on a recent rope rescue call on the American River bluffs.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Johnson)
   •     On December 18, Cal-Jae proudly dedicated its FCTC building in honor of our Captain
         Bob Bruce, whose legacy continues to inspire us after his courageous battle with
         cancer. Captain Bruce significantly impacted many local EMT students through his
         active involvement in training and mentoring.

   •     The Service Delivery team has been meeting regularly to figure out next steps and
         we've had some good collaborative work with labor and management


1.9.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 3 of 6
SUPPORT SERIVES - (Deputy Chief Bailey)
DC Bailey congratulated Fire Marshal Barbie Law, you are very dedicated and will be missed.

DC Bailey introduced Facilities Manager Joe Eachus who spoke on his background and
experience at Metro Fire. Joe spoke on the following projects:

                                             Projects
     •   Station 115 HVAC Chiller replacement is complete.
     •   Arson Building Reroof project started today
     •   Station 116 abatement is scheduled for next Tuesday 1/14.
     •   Station 51 Dorm privacy and flooring project is scheduled to start on 2/21 and is
         anticipated to be completed on 2/29.
     •   Arson restroom remodel is complete.
     •   Logistics EV. chargers for the 2 new electric vans are complete and up and running.
     •   Continuing to work on district upkeep and maintenance.

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
     Captain Scollard echoed thoughts and prayers for crews and citizens in Southern
     California. Congratulations to Fire Marshal Barbie Law, she always strives for excellence
     and will be missed. We had a Labor Management meeting yesterday and we have a lot
     to do in 2025. On the Workers' Compensation we accepted a members cancer claim the
     fastest we've ever done it. Thank you to DC Johnson, Director Webber and all the Ad
     Hoc committee members. We have some leaderships changes at Local 522 and next
     week we will have a swearing in of two Directors on the executive board, Captain Brett
     Randle and BC Matt Cole.

4.       COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
         All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
         10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

         A.      Executive Committee - (President Goold)

         Met tonight and made various 2025 appointments:

         •       Finance & Audit Committee: Director Jones and Director Clark will remain on
                 the committee, added Director Stark, and Director Webber moved to alternate.
         •       Policy Committee: Staying the same with Directors Costa, Saylors and Clark
                 and Director Goold is now the alternate.
         •       Regional Communications Center JPA: Deputy Chief Bailey to remain as the
                 Delegate and Deputy Chief Mitchell as the alternate.
         •       City of Citrus Heights 2x2 Committee will remain the same with Directors Goold
                 and Webber.
         •       City of Rancho Cordova 2x2 Committee will remain the same with Directors
                 Jones and President Wood.
         •       Sacramento County 2x2 Committee will be with Director Jones and Directors
                 Saylors with Director Stark serving as alternate.
         •       Ad Hoc Committee for Workers Comp. will remain with Director Saylors and
                 Webber.

1.9.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                           Page 4 of 6
      B.     Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
              No Report

       C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Webber)
              No Report

      D.      Policy Committee - (Director Costa)

              No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Jones congratulations to Chief Law. Thank you to the HQ staff for the Holiday spirit
and festive decor.

Director Saylors wished the 2024 retirees the best of luck.

Director Webber congratulations to the promoted employees and retirees. Chief Law thank
you for everything you have done. Thank you to Chief House who stood inf or Firefighters on
Christmas day so they can be with their family members. Asked for a moment of silence for
retired members that we lost recently, Firefighter Greg Luckett and Mechanic Don
Hoeckelberg .

Director Costa thanked the men and women of this organization and their sacrifices and their
families sacrifices as well.

Director Wood thank you to Chief Keeley for organizing and giving support to the Burn
Institute on Christmas morning and everyone else that attended. The Firefighters Burn
Institute will be holding their annual "Fill the Boot for Burns" drive from February 5 - 8 th . We
do need to get some Firefighters signed up. Incentives and prizes will be awarded for every
shift. Would love to see a lot of our members there.

Observed a moment of silence for retired Firefighter Greg Luckett and retired Mechanic Don
Hoeckelberg.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 7 :30 p.m. on the following matters:

1.     CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - EXISTING LITIGATION -
       Pursuant to California Government Code Section§ 54956.9: Five Cases

      A Steinwand v. Electric Bike Technologies
      B. White v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      C. Olivares v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      D. Harrison v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      E. Samuel v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened to open session at 8:21 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
the Board met in closed session on Existing Litigation, Conference with Legal Counsel on five
cases, there was no reportable action.
1.9.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 5 of 6
To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https ://metrofi re .ca.gov/2025-01-09-boa rd-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uK1c oOUGNrmogdQ QA


ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:22 p.m.


 fff?e:
Ted Wood, President                                     Robert Webber, Secretary



~l?t#~~
Board Clerk




1.9.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 6 of 6
