       l           I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   lfi,:Jift
  ADAM A. HOUSE
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                            Thursday, January 9, 2025, - 6:00 PM
Ted Wood
                                            Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                   10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4                                       Board Room - Second Floor
John Costa                                            Mather, California
Board Vice President                                          &
Division 9
                                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                   Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                     Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                    ~ Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member             https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ1 Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Division 1


Grant Goold
Board Member
                       The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
□ 'Elman Clark
Board Member
                       Application, please click on the link above.
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member
                       accommodations:
Division 8
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties




                                                                                                                                 P1
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                 THURSDAY, JANUARY 9, 2025



►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro14live.saccounty.gov. Today's meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
January 13, 2025 and again at 6:00 p.m. on Wednesday, January 15, 2025, on Metro
Cable Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand
at youtube.comlmetrocable 14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers' comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                    Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                             5
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of December 12, 2024.

2.     Purchase Approval - Motorola Portable Radios                                11
       Recommendation: Allow the District to procure APX 8000 Series Portable Radios
       from Motorola using the County of Sacramento Open Item Contract #WA00034181 .


                                                                                                                              P2
I&
~
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, JANUARY 9, 2025


3.   Purchase Approval - Dell Server Subscription                               12
     Recommendation: Allow the District to procure a Dell APEX subscription for 17
     servers using the OMNIA Partners Region 14 (ESC) - TX contract, #01 -143.

4.   Purchase Approval - Lease of 10 Zig PCs                                          14
     Recommendation: Allow the District to enter into a 3-year, 0% interest lease to
     procure the 10 Zig thin clients from ePlus Technology, Inc. using OMNIA contract
     #R200803.

REPORTS:

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                (President Wood)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -              (Chief House)

            OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
            ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Johnson)
            SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Bailey)

3.   SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - Captain Sean Scollard, Local
     522 Vice President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

     A.     Executive Committee - (President Wood)
            Next Meeting: TBD

     8.     Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Bailey)
            Next Meeting: January 14, 2025 at 9:00 AM

     C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
            Next Meeting: January 23, 2025 at 5:30 PM

     D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
            Next Meeting: February 13, 2025 at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS




                                                                                                                        P3
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                     THURSDAY, JANUARY 9, 2025



CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matters:

1.       CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL-EXISTING LITIGATION-
         Pursuant to California Government Code Section§ 54956.9: Five Cases

         A Steinwand v. Electric Bike Technologies
         B. White v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         C. Olivares v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         D. Harrison v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ·
         E. Samuel v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •   Regular Board Meeting - January 23, 2025 at 6:00 PM

Posted on January 6, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.



M
'C/4~/i~
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
'mill Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility to this meeting.




                                                                                                                              P4
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief
                 ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                              BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                      SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                              Thursday, December 12, 2024
                              Held at the following locations:
                          10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                     Mather, California
                                              &
                                    Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:01 pm by President Goold. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold, Webber, and Wood. Board members absent: Jones, Saylors, and Rice.
  Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  None

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Wood seconded by Clark and carried unanimously by members present to
  adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.     Action Summary Minutes
         Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
         of October 24, 2024 and November 14, 2024.
         Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.     Revision of Board Policy 01.003.08 - Family and Medical Leave Policy
         Recommendation: Approve the revisions to the Family and Medical Leave Policy.
         Action: Approved .

  3.     Adopt Resolution - Certified Election Results - General Election Results
         Recommendation: Adopt Resolution canvassing the results of the District General
         Election held on November 5, 2024 in accordance with the Certificate of Facts from
         the Registrar of the County of Sacramento. Adopt Resolution canvassing the results of
         a General Obligation Bond Election held on November 5, 2024, in accordance with the
         Certificate of Facts from the Registrars of the Counties of Sacramento and Placer.
         Action: Adopted Resolution 2024-136 and Resolution 2024-137.



                                                                                                           PS
4.    Adopt Resolution - Surplus Equipment
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving disposal of the District's I.T. Division's
      surplus equipment.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2024-138.

5.    Adopt Resolution - Deferred Compensation Committee Appointments
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution appointing Cardiff Schmitz and Michelle Dehoney
      to the Deferred Compensation Committee.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2024-139.

6.    2025 Schedule of Regular Board and Committee Meetings
      Recommendation: Approve the 2025 schedule of regular board and committee
      meetings and cancel meetings that fall on holidays.
      Action: Approved.

PRESENTATION ITEMS

1.    Board Member Swearing-In Ceremony
      (Board Clerk Rittburg)
      Recommendation: Swear-In elected officials for Divisions 2, 4, 5, and 6.
      Action: Board Clerk Rittburg administered the Oath of Office to Director Goold (Division
      2), Director Wood (Division 4), Director Stark (Division 5), and Director Clark (Division 6).
      All were elected to a term ending December 2028.

ACTION ITEMS

1.    Election of Board Officers
      (Board Clerk Rittburg)
      Recommendation: Nominate and elect members of the Board to serve as: a)
      President, b) Vice President, and c) Secretary for one (1) year terms to commence on
      January 1, 2025.

      Action: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by
      members present to nominate Director Wood as Board President.

      Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Clark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to nominate Director Costa as Vice President.

      Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Clark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to nominate Director Webber as Secretary.

2.    Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability" Retirement - Captain Jordan Oakes
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
      finding Captain Jordan Oakes has suffered job related injuries incapacitating him for the
      performance of duties as Captain, and direct staff to continue working with Captain
      Oakes through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
      Action: None, item to be voted on after discussion in Closed Session.




12.12.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 2 of 6     P6
REPORTS

1.       PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Goold)

         President Goold thanked his colleagues for a wonderful year serving in this position as
         Board President. Thanks for the many discussions and accepting responsibilities and
         pushing boundaries to make change. There is incredible energy flowing through the
         building which sure makes our jobs easier.

2.       FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Chief House)

Good evening, President Goold, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public.

Chief House thanked President Goold for serving as President. As President you have led
some projects in this organization such as establishing the Ad Hoc Committee which has
increased our capacity to care for our members. I wish all the Directors a Merry Christmas.

I want to acknowledge the public that we serve. The community has spoken loud and clear
that they enjoy our service delivery and they want it maintained. I cannot thank the public
enough for their support and vote of confidence for this organization in passing Measure 0 .
want to thanked every member of this organization for their support and collaboration as it
took all of you to get this passed. I wish you all a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
Deputy Chief Mitchell brought up Chief Pilot Nowaski who provided a year-end review of air
operations.

Air Ops Year in review:

     -    Air Ops Incident totals: 255 calls
     -    Out of county fire activations: 1
     -    Rescuer Hiring process: 22 outstanding applicants, hired 4
     -    Rescuer Academy: all four graduated
     -    Next year look ahead: looking forward to a productive year

Shift Commander Spotlight

AC Greene introduced BC Gonsalves who brought up Truck 26A crew, including Capt.
Jukich, Eng. Horton, FF/P Hofford, and FF/P Edwards. FF/P Edwards shared with the Board
about the crew's participation with Antelope High School's Football team dinners held at
Station 26 during the football season.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Johnson)
COMMUNITY RELATIONS DIVISION

     •    On December 4 , Metro Fire was thrilled to partner with the City of Rancho Cordova
          and the Rancho Cordova Police Department's Police Activities League (PAL) program
          to bring smiles to local kids during a delightful shopping spree at Target!
     •    On December 7, we had a wonderful time celebrating the holidays with our Metro Fire
          Community Emergency Response Team (CERT) members. Twenty-five of our

12.12.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 3 of 6   P7
         dedicated volunteers gathered for an afternoon filled with delicious food, laughter, and
         camaraderie.
     •   Looking ahead, on Thursday, December 19, we're excited to partner with Citrus
         Heights Operation Holiday Cheer to spread joy by distributing gifts and food boxes to
         families facing unexpected hardships.

BACKGROUNDS
  • Backgrounds as of 12/09/2024:
       o 2 Fire Mechanics
       o 1 Arson Investigator
       o 1 Logistics Technician
       o 1 Communications Technician (as of today)
       o 15 Reserve Firefighters
       o 70 MMPs (11 Paramedics, 59 EMTs)
       o 10 Lateral Firefighters
  • Chief Johnson acknowledged HR Analyst Leslie Miller who has been inundated with
    hundreds of backgrounds and she always does it with a smile.

TRAINING
  • Fire Academy 24-2 graduation is December 20, 2024, at 6 pm at San Juan High
     School.
        o 16 recruits

SUPPORT SERIVES - (Deputy Chief Bailey)
No Report

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
     BC Matt Cole piggybacked on the Measure O Obligation Bond comments made by Chief
     House. Thank you to the members of Station 26 who knocked on 5,740 doors to establish
     relationships and meet the community. Thank you to all the volunteers who did these
     activities on their own time. It was a really successful collaboration. Thank you to Director
     Webber for your commitment to the Ad Hoc Committee and working to improve Workers'
     Compensation. We look forward to continuing an increase of service with the new
     SAFER Grant. This is a very exciting time for Metro Fire. We have an obligation to the
     community to collaborate and we owe that to them. I'm very excited for 2025.

4.       COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
         All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
         10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

         A.      Executive Committee - (President Goold)

                  No Report

         8.      Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
                 The SRFECC met on December 10, 2024 and Ty Bailey was appointed to be
                 the Board Chairperson for 2025 and Scotty Williams from Sacramento City Fire
                 will be the Vice Chairperson for 2025. During that meeting the JPA voted and
                 approved a reclassification of the administration manager to Deputy Director of
                 Administration.
                                                                                                        Page 4 of 6   P8
12.12.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
             The Next Board meeting will be at Metro Headquarters on January 14, 2025.

      C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Webber)
             No Report

      D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)

             No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Costa thanked the Board, Chief and staff and the community for the opportunity to
serve this year. Wishing everyone happy and safe holidays.

Director Webber wished everyone happy and safe holidays. Thank you to those that will be
on duty. Thank you to the Board for trusting me to be Secretary in 2025.

Director Stark stated he is humbled to be on the Board and part of the Metro Fire family.

Director Clark echoed the sentiments of his fellow Directors. He expressed thanks to
Community Relations Coordinator Brenda Briggs, Community Relations Specialists April
West and Allisyn Mayhew for organizing and participating in the Christmas event at the Ralph
Richardson Center. Thank you to the E110 Crew: Captain Ryan Ross, Engineer Aaron
Wham, FF Jason Valenzuela for bringing the Fire Truck. The kids were so excited to see the
Fire Truck and Santa. It was a wonderful event.

Director Wood thanked the citizens of Division 4 for electing me to another term on this
Board. Thank you to Pete Votava, Matt Cole, Sean Scollard, Shawn Stark and everyone else
that helped me. I attended a great event in November put on by the Firefighters Burn
Institute called Heroes, Hops and Hot Rods. Thank you to Grant Goold for all your hard work
in 2024 serving as President of the Board.

Director Goold stated that we have some very exciting things coming in 2025. We are a
blessed group and a lot of people in this community are not so blessed so please take a
moment in your day to spend a few minutes with someone who is lonely. It's been an honor,
happy holidays!

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 6:47 p.m. on the following matters:

1.    PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (A) -ONE
      (1) MATTER OF WORKERS COMPENSATION SETTLEMENT AUTHORITY.
       1.    Jordan Oakes and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
             Claim # 4A2304MR66N0001, - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
             Colin Connor of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

      Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Director Webber, and carried unanimously by
      members present to give authority to its third-party administrator to effectuate a
      settlement of the matter.




                                                                                  Page 5 of 6
                                                                                                P9
12.12.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
2.    PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION § 54956.9 (A) -
      ONE (1) MATTER OF INDUSTRIAL DISABILITY RETIREMENT:

      1.     Jordan Oakes and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
             Claim# 4A2304MR66N0001 - Industrial Disability Retirement
             Colin Connor of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened to open session at 7:08 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
the Board met in closed session on two matters: 1. Workers Compensation Claim of Jordan
Oakes, the Board voted unanimously to give authority to its third-party administrator to
effectuate a settlement in the matter. 2. Industrial Disability Retirement of same employee,
Jordan Oakes, no reportable action, subject to motion and vote in open session.

ACTION ITEM CONTINUED TO AFTER CLOSED SESSION:

2.    Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement - Captain Jordan Oakes
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
      finding Captain Jordan Oakes has suffered job related injuries incapacitating him for the
      performance of duties as Captain, and direct staff to continue working with Captain
      Oakes through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
      Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2024-140.
To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2024-12-12-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA


ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 7: 10 p.m.



Grant Goold, President                              Jennifer Sheetz, Secretary


Marni Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk




12.12.2024 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 6 of 6
                                                                                               P10
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave. Suite 200. Mather, California 95655. Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916)859-3720
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief


DATE:           January 9, 2025

TO:             Board of Directors

SUBJECT:        Purchase Approval - Purchase of Motorola Portable Radios

                                                TOPIC

Staff requests Board approval for the purchase of APX 8000 Series portable radios from
Motorola using County of Sacramento Open Item Contract# WA00034181.

                                           DISCUSSION

The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (District) is a subscriber to Sacramento
County's Motorola 800 MHz radio system and utilizes Motorola 800 MHz radios for two-
way voice communication between field units and dispatch. To ensure optimum
interoperability with Sacramento County's radio system and to meet public safety and
mutual-aid demands, utilizing compatible products is a necessity. The District's current
portable radios are no longer supported and parts are no longer available for repairs.
Since the current radios cannot be repaired, the District would like to purchase 40
radios to be assigned to members.

The County of Sacramento's Open Item Contract with Motorola (contract
#WA00034181) will be utilized for this purchase. Per the County's contract, all agencies
using the Sacramento Regional Radio Communications System (SRRCS) may utilize
this contract for purchases. Motorola has confirmed that this contract provides the
District with tier-quantity discounts that are not offered on their other cooperative
contracts.
                                    FISCAL IMPACT

Funding for the portable radios was not included in the FY 2024/25 Budget and this
unanticipated expense would incur a cost of $310,545.29.

  Provider              Product                                            Cost
  Motorola           APX 8000 Series                                    $310,345.29

                                      RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Board of Director's allow the District to procure the APX
8000 Series Portable Radios from Motorola using the County of Sacramento Open Item
Contract# WA00034181 .

Submitted by:                                           Approved by:

   ~h<U6~                                               ty bailey~
Mathew Roseberry,                                       Ty Baily,
Director of Information Technology                      Deputy Chief of Support Services

                                                                                                                 P11
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave. Suite 200. Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916)859-3720
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief

DATE:           January 9, 2025

TO:             Board of Directors

SUBJECT:        Purchase Approval - Purchase of Dell Server Subscription

                                                TOPIC

Staff requests Board approval for the purchase of a Dell server subscription from Dell
Marketing L.P. using the OMNIA Partners Region 14 Education Service Center (ESC) -
TX contract, #01-143.

                                            DISCUSSION
 The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's server infrastructure is old and outdated
 and no longer meets the needs of the District. With hardware and software technology
 changing rapidly, the District is no longer getting a 7-year lifespan from the hardware it
 owns. The District is exploring a different approach for this hardware replacement cycle.
 Rather than purchasing the hardware outright, the District wishes to purchase a 4-year
 hardware subscription. This will be a more cost-effective option and will allow the
 District to keep up with the everchanging hardware and software requirements.
 Additionally, at the end of the subscription, the hardware is returned to Dell, saving the
 District the time and costs associated with e-waste disposal.


 As the lead public agency, Region 14 ESC issued a competitive solicitation for
 Technology Solutions, Products, and Services on behalf of the National Cooperative
 Purchasing Alliance (NCPA). NCPA is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the OMNIA
 Partners cooperative. NCPA assists public agencies to increase their efficiency and
 reduce their costs when procuring goods and services. This is accomplished l;>y
 awarding competitively solicited contracts that are leveraged nationally by combining
 the volumes and purchasing power of entities nationwide. Dell Marketing was awarded
 Contract# 01-143 as a result of this competitive solicitation.

                                          FISCAL IMPACT

 The subscription will be purchased from Dell using the OMNIA Partners contract and
 paid in four annual payments of $67,203.48.

 Funding for the server subscription is included in this fiscal year's budget.

  Provider         Product                                           Total 4-Year Cost
  Dell     APEX Subscri tion 17 Servers                                $268,813.92

                                       RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Board of Director's allow the District to procure a Dell APEX
subscription for 17 servers using the OMNIA Partners Region 14 (ESC) - TX contract,
#01-143.

Submitted by:                                 Appr~ ~


~
DirectmoflnformatiM Technology
                                               ty bailey{llec3l,W4.PST)
                                              Ty Baily,
                                              Deputy Chief of Support Services




                                                                                          P13
~u,,,                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l·          I




                       10545 Armstrong Ave. Suite 200. Mather; California 95655, Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916)859-3720
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief


DATE:              January 9, 2025

TO:                Board of Dire.ctors

SUBJECT: Purchase Approval - Lease Qf 1OZig PCs
                                                   TOPIC

Staff requests Board approval to enter irito a 3-year lease to procure 10 Zig Thin Clients
(PCs) frqm ePlus Technology, Inc. using OMNIA Partners Region 4 Education Service
Center (ESC) contract# R200803.

                                              DISCUSSION
 The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's (District) desktop thln clients are old and the
 hardware is out of date. This purchase will replace the remaining thin clients that are not
 10 Zig, allowing the District to standardize on a single management console.

 To minimize annual fiscal impact, the District wishes to lease the equipment over a 3-
 year term in lieu of procuring the equipment outright. The purchase will be leveraging an
 OMNIA Partners cooperative contract for the cost of the equipment.

 In partnership with the OMNIA Partners cooperative, Region 14 ESC, the principal
 procurement agency, issued a competitive solicitation for Cyber Security Solutions and
 Associated Products & Services to establish a resultant contract. OMNIA Partners
 assists public agencies to increase their efficiency and reduce their costs when
 procuring goods and services. This is accomplished by awarding competitively solicited
 contracts that are leveraged nationally by combining the volumes and purchasing power
 of entities nationwide. SYNNEX Corporation was awarded Contract # R200803 as a
 result of this cornpetitive solicitation. ePlus Technology, Inc. is listed as an authorized
 reseller under this contract.


                                             FISCAL IMPACT

 The 3-year lease from ePlus is 0% for 36 months with 3 annual payments of $37,624.97
 for a total of $112,874.90. The taxes for the equipment are paid up front for a total
 purchase cost of $122,751.45

 Funding for the PC lease is included in this fiscal year's budget.

  Provider                    Product                                   Total 3-Year Cost
  ePlus                 10 Zi Thin Clients                                $122,751.45

                                          RECOMMENDATION


                                                                                                                    P14
Staff recommends that the Board of Director's allow the District to enter into a 3-year,
0% interest lease to procure the 10 Zig thin clients from ePlus Technology, Inc. using
OMNIA contract# R200803.

Submitted by:                                  Approved by:



~
                                               tyballey~ W n -
                                               Ty Baily,
 ,rector of Information Technology             Deputy Chief of Support Services




                                                                                           P15
