Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
Tuesday, June 27, 2023 – 6:30 p.m. – Closed Session at 4:30 p.m.

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the meeting to order at 4:30 p.m. Other Board members
present: Bina Lefkovitz, Alfred Brown, Heather Davis, and Harold Fong (via Zoom).
Joanne Ahola was absent. Alfred Brown departed during closed session for a personal
commitment. Mariana Corona Sabeniano arrived while closed session was in progress.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Executive Director Jerry Jones; and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Keefer led the pledge.

President Keefer asked if there are any public comments before convening to closed
session. There were no public comments.

Open Session recessed at 4:32 p.m.

Closed Session opened at 4:34 p.m.

Closed Session recessed at 6:07 p.m.

The Board reconvened Open Session at 6:34 p.m.

Also present were Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota; Associate Superintendent
Nick Schweizer; Chief Administrator Darrien Slider-Johnson, Associate General
Counsel Elizabeth Linton; Assistant Superintendents Brent Malicote and Jacqueline
White; Executive Directors Michael Kast and Xanthi Soriano; and Director Shanine
Coats.

President Keefer announced that the Board took action in Closed Session to extend
Superintendent Gordon's contract through June 30, 2027, by the following vote: 5 ayes
(Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Fong, Brown), 1 abstention (Corona Sabeniano), and 1
absent (Ahola). He also stated that by extending the Superintendent’s contract, the



06.27.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          1
Board is expressing its confidence and support for the Superintendent and what he has
accomplished for the Sacramento County Office of Education (SCOE). He further stated
that for purposes of public disclosure: Under the provisions of the Superintendent's
existing employment contract with the Board and consistent with longstanding practice,
the Superintendent receives the same Cost of Living Adjustments (COLA) as SCOE
bargaining units and managers, which will be 8% as of July 1, 2023, with a one-time,
off-schedule COLA of 3%. With these increases, the Superintendent’s salary will be
$368,513 for the 2023-2024 school year.

President Keefer asked that a motion to ratify and extend the Superintendent's
employment contract through June 30, 2027 be considered.

Trustee Davis moved, and Trustee Lefkovitz seconded the motion to ratify and extend
the Superintendent's Employment Contract through June 30, 2027.

Yes: Trustees Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Fong, Corona Sabeniano
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Brown

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

The following individuals made public comments regarding employee wages: Wendy
Roberts, Connie Holmes, and Robin Satow.

B. Employee Organizations

Tara Degg, President of CSEA Chapter 480, provided an update on negotiations.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. No Approval of Minutes

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion by Trustee Corona Sabeniano to approve the adoption of the agenda as
presented, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Fong, Corona Sabeniano
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Brown

5. Official Correspondence

A. No Official Correspondence




06.27.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        2
6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

DISTRICT UPDATE
Going into the new year, we have three new district superintendents. As announced
earlier this year, Melissa Bassanelli is the new superintendent with the San Juan Unified
School District. Effective July 1, Eileen Aguba Chen will officially take the helm at Robla
School District and Dr. Robyn Castillo will be in position as superintendent at Natomas
Unified School District. As for trustees, both San Juan Unified and Natomas Unified will
have a special election on Tuesday, November 7, 2023, to fill their Vacant Trustee
seats, Area 4 for Natomas and Area 7 for San Juan.

PREPARING STUDENTS
Thank you, Trustee Brown for attending the El Centro Jr./Sr. High School Graduation on
June 21. We are all very proud of every graduate this past year and look forward to
continued success for the 2023-2024 school year.

SUMMER STUDENT PROGRAMS UPDATE
This summer, our SCOE students and district students participated in either a career
path building workshop or real-world CTE experience opportunity. For Career Pipeline,
we had 91 completers and for our CTE program, we had 18 students complete with a
passing grade and many earned As for the course. Additionally, completers received a
$1,000 internship stipend, and for the CTE program, access to $2,000 in additional cash
prizes in the amounts of $150 (first place), $75 (second place), and $50 (third place) in
seven industry sectors such as Arts, Media, and Entertainment; Business and Finance;
Education; Engineering; and Transportation, etc. Three CTE students received $25
each in growth mindset awards. 17 CTE students earned a Food Handlers certification,
bringing them one step closer to helping them find employment in the food industry.
When surveyed about the CTE program, students enjoyed the cooking, business
aspects, and meeting and working with others. They also highlighted the growth
mindset, perseverance, communication, pricing, mechanical and circuit work, and
learning more about “my career.” Students listed earning their Food Handlers
certification, being ahead and keeping up with their work, getting a lot of work done in
one day, showing up, trying their hardest and never stopping, etc. as their greatest
accomplishments during the three-week course.

BUILDING PARTNERSHIPS
On June 14, CapRadio ran an arts-related story featuring quotes from Assistant
Superintendent Jacqueline White who spoke to the need for as many as 200 arts
teachers in Sacramento County and 15,000 statewide. The story was titled “The way
Sacramento pays for arts education is broken. Here’s what could help.” This story
features a variety of views from arts advocates and focuses on the recent legislation of
Assembly Bill 181 and Proposition 28 that both promised significant arts funding yet
became subject to the Governor’s recent budget cuts.




06.27.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             3
On June 26, Executive Director Jerry Jones participated in a state-wide press
conference sponsored by the California School Boards Association to support Assembly
Bill 1023. The bill is sponsored by Assemblymember Diane Papan and will require the
State’s new Cybersecurity Integration Center to provide Cybersecurity support and
coordination to school districts and county offices of education. Since current statute
does not require the California Cybersecurity Integration Center (Cal-CSIC) to support
schools in the way it does other government agencies, AB 1023 is an essential measure
to enhance school safety and data privacy. The bill has received unanimous support in
the Assembly and is expected to pass in the Senate as well.

UPCOMING EVENTS
On June 28, SCOE’s School of Education will hold its End-of-Year Celebration for the
Preliminary Administrative Services Credential Program at the SCOE Conference
Center for 72 aspiring leaders. He, Dr. Winlock, and Dr. Herota will be speaking at this
event, along with members from the cohorts who were selected to speak by their peers.

On July 10, SCOE will facilitate the final Listening Session for FY 2023 organized by
Jacqueline White and her team to gather input from students enrolled in our school
programs at El Centro Jr./Sr. High School. (Note: This has been rescheduled to August
10.)

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Davis to adopt the Consent Agenda, second by Trustee Corona
Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Fong, Corona Sabeniano
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Brown

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Disclosure of Salary Increase in Accordance with Education Code 1302 (a) - David
W. Gordon

D. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
White/Michael Kast

Executive Director Michael Kast announced that 7 students will be awarded diplomas,
including 1 candidate from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School and 6 candidates from Leo A.
Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School.

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer




06.27.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          4
A. Motion by Trustee Davis to approve contracts, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Fong, Corona Sabeniano
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Brown

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Fong to approve authorization to submit grant applications/service
contracts and accept funding if awarded; and approval of contracts, positions, and other
expenditures associated with the grants as outlined in the proposed budget, second by
Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Fong, Corona Sabeniano
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Brown

A. Local Child Care Development Planning Council Grant - Brent Malicote

B. Friday Night Live and Social Emotional Learning Program - Brent Malicote

C. County Technical Assistance Grant - Brent Malicote

D. Friday Night Live/Club Live/Friday Night Live Mentoring Programs Grant - Brent
Malicote

E. Prevention Coalition Grant - Brent Malicote

F. American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) Friday Night Live Grant - Brent Malicote

G. Quality Counts California (QCC) Block Grant - Brent Malicote

H. Early Head Start Grant and Adoption of Resolution No. 23-09 - Brent Malicote

I. Geographic Lead Agency System within California's Statewide System of Support -
Dr. Nancy Herota

J. Literacy Coaches and Reading Specialists Educator Training Grant Program - Brent
Malicote

K. Educator Workforce Investment Grant Program: Effective Language Acquisition
Programs Grant - Brent Malicote




06.27.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         5
10. New Business - Other

A. 2023-2024 LCAP Adoption and Dashboard Local Indicators Report - Jacqueline
White

Motion by Trustee Davis to adopt 2023-2024 LCAP and Dashboard Local Indicators
report, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Fong, Corona Sabeniano
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Brown

B. Adoption of the 2023-2024 Budget - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to adopt the 2023-2024 Budget by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Corona
Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Fong, Corona Sabeniano
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Brown

C. Approval of the 2022-2023 Budget Revision No. 3 - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve the 2022-2023 Budget Revision No. 3 by Trustee Corona Sabeniano,
second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Fong, Corona Sabeniano
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Brown

D. Approval of Use of Proposition 30, the Schools and Local Public Safety Protection
Act of 2012, in Substitution of Regular Revenue Limit Apportionments - Nicolas
Schweizer

Motion to approve use of Proposition 30, the Schools and Local Public Safety Protection
Act of 2012, in Substitution of Regular Revenue Limit Apportionments by Trustee
Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Fong, Corona Sabeniano
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Brown

E. Universal Prekindergarten Mixed Delivery Planning Grant Proposal - Brent Malicote

Assistant Superintendent Brent Malicote introduced Executive Director Julie Montali and
Coordinator Steven Hicks from the Early Learning Department who provided an



06.27.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         6
overview of the Universal Prekindergarten (UPK) Mixed Delivery Planning Grant.

F. 2023-2024 Annual Report: Summary of Support (LCAP & Differentiated Assistance) -
Dr. Channa Cook

Executive Director Dr. Channa Cook presented the 2023-2024 Annual Report:
Summary of Support (LCAP & Differentiated Assistance).

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Lefkovitz thanked SCOE staff for answering her many questions and enjoyed
reading our professional development plan for next year. She commented that she has
been reflecting on the hate speech that is happening, anti-LGBTQ, antisemitic, anti-
Black, the anti-Asian, anti-immigration, etc. and feels like SCOE needs to continue to
stand up and speak out. She wondered if it would be helpful to create professional
development courses on the various subgroups to help people understand, if it could be
used as a primer for ethnic studies, and if it could help inform anti-bullying policies. She
stated that she went to a My Brothers Keeper event, and they have developed
strategies for helping young black men be successful and shared their report with her
colleagues. Ms. Lefkovitz also commented that she was recently appointed by
Supervisor Patrick Kennedy to the Library Board.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano commented that she was briefly looking at the job postings
on the SCOE website and noticed some of them only had a single wage listed as
opposed to a range. She referenced a state law that was passed last year that requires
that wage ranges be posted and offered to send more information.

Trustee Davis - no report.

Trustee Fong referenced an article about a group of elementary students given the task
of redesigning their playground and how they were able to successfully accomplish the
task. He stated that if a student is given a task or a challenge, the student will meet it,
such as the role of student trustee.

B. Board President

President Keefer thanked Superintendent Gordon for a great year. He thanked his
colleagues and SCOE staff for their support and expressed gratitude for the opportunity
to learn this year. President Keefer read What Brings Me Light written by an El Centro
Jr./Sr. High School student.

C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution



06.27.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             7
A. July/August Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. July 11, 2023 and August 15, 2023

14. Adjournment

A. Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee
   Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Fong, Corona Sabeniano
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Brown

The meeting adjourned at 8:12 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




06.27.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                    8
