Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
Tuesday, June 24, 2025

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Brown called the regular meeting to order at 4:44 p.m. Other Board members
present: Harold Fong, Paul Keefer, Bina Lefkovitz, Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Heather
Davis, and Vanessa Caigoy.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board,
Teresa Stinson, General Counsel, and Wende Watson, Executive Assistant.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Corona Sabeniano led the Pledge of Allegiance.
President Brown read a land acknowledgement.

President Brown asked if there were any public comments before convening to closed
session. There were no public comments.

Open Session recessed at 4:46 p.m.
Closed Session opened at 4:50 p.m.
Closed Session recessed at 6:45 p.m.
Reconvened Open Session at 6:50 p.m.

President Brown reported that the Board did not take any action in Closed Session.

In addition to those present earlier, the following individuals were also present when the
Board reconvened for Open Session: Dr. Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent;
Associate Superintendents Nicolas Schweizer and Brent Malicote; Assistant
Superintendents Michael Kast and Jacqueline White; Executive Director Xanthi Soriano,
and Director Shanine Coats. SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing Students
Judith Marquez was also present at this time.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment




06.24.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          1
B. Employee Organizations

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of May 6, 2025

Motion by Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Caigoy.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented by Trustee Davis,
   second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

5. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

Initially the Superintendent’s Report was deferred to the end of the meeting; however
Superintendent Gordon was not present at the end of the meeting to deliver the report.
The Superintendent did not present his report.

6. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

7. New Business

A. Adoption of Resolution No. 25-10 Recognizing LGBTQIA+ Pride Month - Dr. Nancy
Herota

Motion by President Brown, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

B. PUBLIC HEARING and Action of Miracle University Charter High School Countywide
   Charter Petition - Teresa Stinson

Public Hearing opened at 6:57 p.m.




06.24.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           2
Trustee Fong made a motion to extend the presentation time from 15 minutes to 20
minutes for Miracle University and for SCOE; second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Caigoy

Dr. Kadhir Raja presented the Miracle University Charter High School Countywide
Charter Petition.

The following individuals were also present with Miracle University and spoke on their
behalf: Janelle Ruley, Legal Counsel; Sheena Jones, an Oakdale Parent; Aaron
Cardoza, Staff Member; and Zarif Aminyar, Professor of Corporate Finance.

Deputy Superintendent Dr. Nancy Herota, Associate Superintendent of Business
Services Nick Schweizer, and SCOE General Counsel Teresa Stinson presented
SCOE’s Recommendations and Findings Report.

There were public comments in support of Miracle University from the following
individuals: Sajida Paikar, Sharon Thurmond, Ram Thanapandian, William Onejeme,
Aaron Cardoza, Khairul Ali Raybon, Ebony Hall, Brenna McCalister, Soumen Das,
Tamara Brown, Zakiyyah Brown, Hayley Greene, Teresa Daniel, Anu Ramraj, Equel
Cruz, Tamara Eugene, Sophia B., Harmony S, Jamil Gainus, Shaquille Fisher, Dr. Zarif
Aminyar, Tawonna Johnson, D’moni Birks, Sean Boyea, Keioni Bolton, Keishawn
Bolton, Pearl Bolton, Yuli Santoyo, Michael Baylor, Heaven Baylor, Felix Nunez, Sofia
Nunez, Mohammad Saberi, Leia Schenk, Carmen Ayon, Eric Arias, Amy Perez, Shirley
A. Roberts, Kira Dismukes, Tonya Jacobs, Tina S., Jason Thongpaithoon, Joe Robinson
(via Zoom), Mike Patel, Kaniya Ann Touch, Jerry Mack, Keith Hodges, Kevin Adamson,
April Ayatch, Pamela Smith, Matthias J., Gretchen Garner-Easter, Janelle Ruley, Elijah
Hurts, Grady Rax, Francisco Freeman, Ajuwan Jones, Seluini Liu, Sheena Jones,
Autumn Allen, Mastora Matin, Pastor Wayne Kirkling, and Pastor Jonathan Strickling.

Public Hearing Closed: 9:26 p.m.

Board members asked questions of Miracle University representatives and SCOE staff.

President Brown asked for a motion to approve or deny the Miracle Countywide Charter
School petition.

Trustee Keefer moved to deny the petition as it is submitted, second by Trustee Caigoy.

Trustee Keefer amended his motion “to deny the petition as it is submitted” to instead
adopt SCOE's Recommendations and Findings and deny the Miracle University Charter



06.24.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           3
High School Countywide Charter Petition; second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy
No: Fong

8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Corona
Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Fong

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
White/Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendent White announced that ten students are scheduled to graduate
from each of their respective schools and have completed all requirements for high
school graduation including five candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School,
one candidate from Cordova Lane Senior Extension, one candidate from Elinor Lincoln
Hickey Senior Extension, one candidate from North Area Community School, and two
candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

D. School Plan for Student Achievement (SPSA) - Jacqueline White/Michael Kast

E. 2025-2026 Annual Summary Report (LCAP & Differentiated Assistance) - Dr. Nancy
Herota

F. Board Adoption of Course Catalog - Jacqueline White

G. Declaration of Equipment Listed as Surplus Property and Authorization to Dispose of
Equipment Pursuant to Education Code - Jerry Jones

After the adoption of the Consent Agenda, President Dr. Brown stated that Board Bylaw
9323 requires the Board to obtain approval to continue the meeting past 10:30 p.m. and
asked for a motion to extend the meeting beyond 10:30 p.m.

Motion by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy


06.24.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                       4
No: Fong

9. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

Trustee Caigoy made a motion to approve contracts as presented with the exception of
the Capitol Advisors contract; second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Fong

President Brown recessed the meeting at 9:34 p.m.
The meeting was reconvened at 9:44 p.m.

President Brown recommended that the Capitol Advisors contract be tabled for a future
meeting.

Trustee Caigoy made a motion to deny the approval of the Capitol Advisors contract,
second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Failed
Yes: Caigoy, Davis, Fong
No: Brown, Keefer, Lefkovitz, Corona Sabeniano

Trustee Lefkovitz made a motion for the contract to be brought back to a future meeting
with more information, second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Fong

10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget -
David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Keefer to approve authorization to submit grant applications/service
contracts and accept funding if awarded; and approval of contracts, positions, and other
expenditures associated with the grants as outlined in the proposed budget, second by
Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Fong

A. Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) Comprehensive Support & Improvement Plan
Development COE - Dr. Nancy Herota



06.24.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          5
B. Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) Comprehensive Support & Improvement Plan
Approval COE - Dr. Nancy Herota

C. California Student Opportunity and Access Program (Cal-SOAP) Grant - Brent
Malicote

11. New Business - Other

A. Adoption of Resolution No. 25-08 Resolution to Pay Absent Board Member - David
W. Gordon

Motion to approve adoption of Resolution No. 25-08 Resolution to Pay Absent Board
Member by Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Caigoy, Fong
Abstain: Brown

B. REVISED Deferred Maintenance and Modernization Projects - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Nick Schweizer presented Item 11.B. Deferred Maintenance
and Modernization Projects.

Motion to approve to authorize staff to award the construction contract to the selected
contractor (TriVel Construction, Inc.), enter into such additional contracts as necessary,
hire additional consultants, and retain any services required to bring the project (located
at 10520 Armstrong Avenue) to completion by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee
Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Fong

C. Approval of the 2024-2025 Budget Revision No. 3 - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve Budget Revision No. 3 for the County School Service Fund, Program
Budgets, and Special Funds by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Fong

D. Adoption of the 2025-2026 Budget - Nicolas Schweizer

Trustee Lefkovitz made a motion to adopt the budget with an amendment to allocate up
to a million dollars for the implementation of the Black Student Success Project and a
contract with Miracle University; second by Trustee Keefer.




06.24.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            6
After discussion, Trustee Lefkovitz then amended her motion, moving instead to adopt
the budget as presented; second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Fong

E. Adoption of 2025-2026 Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP) - Jacqueline
White

Assistant Superintendent White presented the 2025-2026 Local Control and
Accountability Plan (LCAP).

Motion by Trustee Davis to adopt the 2025-2026 Local Control and Accountability Plan
(LCAP), second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Fong

F. Approval of Recruitment Plan for Youth County Board Member - Dr. Nancy Herota

Motion by Trustee Keefer to approve the recruitment plan for Youth County Board
Member; second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Fong

G. Second Reading and Adoption of Revisions to BB 9150 - Student County Board
Members - Policy Committee - Teresa Stinson

Trustee Corona Sabeniano provided a recap of the revisions to BB 9150 - Student
County Board Members.

Trustee Lefkovitz proposed including the following additional revisions:

   •   The Board president shall (not may) appoint Board Members to review…
   •   The Board president shall (not may) assign a Board Member mentor…
   •   The Youth board member shall seek (not be encouraged) input from students
       and be encouraged to share their observations, including providing an end-of-
       year reflection on their experiences as a Youth County Board member for
       continuous improvement purposes.

Motion by Trustee Davis to adopt the revisions to BB 9150 including the additional
revisions proposed by Trustee Lefkovitz (see above); second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Fong


06.24.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         7
SCOE General Counsel stated that upon the adoption of BB 9150, the Board can move
forward to appointing the Student County Board member at future Board meeting.

H. Second Reading and Adoption of Revisions to Board Policy 6158 - Independent
Study - Policy Committee - Teresa Stinson

SCOE General Counsel Teresa Stinson presented the Second Reading and Adoption of
Revisions to Board Policy 6158 - Independent Study.

Motion by Trustee Caigoy to adopt the revisions to Board Policy 6158, second by
Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Fong

I. Revisions to ARR 6158 - Independent Study - Teresa Stinson

Teresa Stinson presented the revisions to ARR 6158 - Independent Study. This was an
informational item only.

12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Member Suggestions on Future Agenda Items ("Idea Log")

Trustee Caigoy stated that she would like a resolution brought forward to support SB
414 and oppose AB 84.

Trustee Keefer asked for information on how families from Highlands Charter are being
helped since they are losing resources and what can SCOE do to help. Assistant
Superintendent White responded that the CAERC Consortium is already discussing this
and has two sessions scheduled to help provide placements for students who are being
displaced.

Trustee Lefkovitz requested that the budget be amended to fund services to support
Black student success strategies and for a contract with Miracle University. She also
requested information about how LGBTQ students are being supported in our schools;
how we are complying with the Fair Act; training teachers; and augmenting our
textbooks. Deputy Superintendent Herota responded with information about a new
training requirement for certificated staff working with students and stated that we will
follow up with more information.

Trustee Davis suggested that El Centro students have access to a “Library of Things” -
to include, for example, musical instruments; access to virtual 4-week courses, e.g.,
gardening. She also requested a way to make book purchases for students at El
Centro.




06.24.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                              8
B. Board Members

Trustee Caigoy - no report.

Trustee Keefer commended the academic team for the LCAP results that reflect the
success of our students.

Trustee Lefkovitz - no report.

Trustee Fong expressed his thanks to the staff for the work performed to review the
Miracle Charter School petition.

SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing Students Marquez thanked her
colleagues for the opportunity to participate in the discussions.

Trustee Davis - no report.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano - no report.

C. Board President

President Brown referenced Resolution Recognizing LGBTQIA+ Pride Month, stated
that he had misunderstood the motion before the Board at the last meeting, and
restated his commitment to treating people equally.

D. Committees

13. Items for Distribution

A. June Events and Site Visits

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. July 15, 2025 Regular Board Meeting at 6:30 p.m.

B. August 12, 2025 Regular Board Meeting at 6:30 p.m.

15. Adjournment

A. Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy, Fong

The meeting was adjourned at 12:03 a.m.




06.24.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        9
Respectfully submitted,



David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




06.24.25 Board Meeting Minutes   10
