Senate Bill 584
Civic Learning in Grades 1-8: Creating
Pathways for the Seal of Civic Engagement


THIS BILL                                                                According to a 2024 study on civic literacy, two
                                                                         thirds of Americans say they studied civics in high
SB 584 promotes civic learning in grades 1-8 to
                                                                         school. Only a quarter of them say they are “very
introduce the opportunity of achieving a State Seal
                                                                         confident” they could explain how our system of
of Civic Engagement in grades 11 or 12. Specifically,
                                                                         government works.2
this bill:
 Requires current instruction under social                              It is imperative we introduce students early to civic
    sciences curriculum for grades 1-6 and 7-12 to                       education and systems of government to create
    include civic engagement experiences with                            clear pathways towards a lifetime of civic
    governmental institutions.                                           engagement.
 Expands the criteria for local education agencies
    to apply for the existing California Serves Grant                    PURPOSE
    Program under the California Department of                           SB 584 furthers existing law by creating pathways
    Education to include grades 1-8 for professional                     for students in elementary and secondary schools to
    learning and instruction materials on civic                          become     civically   engaged      in   democratic
    engagement.                                                          governmental institutions at the local, state, and
 Creates a Civic Engagement Pathways                                    national levels. This bill aligns with current social
    Recognition Program to recognize demonstrated                        studies curriculum frameworks.
    progress in civic education.
                                                                         This bill begins to close the gaps in civic education
BACKGROUND                                                               between students in 1st through 12th grades and
The State Seal of Civic Engagement established by                        encourage students to become active participants in
AB 24 (Chapter 2017, Statute of 2017), encourages                        their communities and government. Civic education
the creation of pathways for students in secondary                       provides students with critical thinking and
schools to become civically engaged in democratic                        collaboration skills, including the tools to improve
governmental institutions at the local, state, and                       their communities. Civic education also positively
national levels.                                                         impacts school attendance, academic achievement,
                                                                         and suspension rates.
Subsequently in 2020, the State Board of Education
adopted criteria and guidance to award the State                         SB 584 empowers teachers to use existing civic
Seal of Civic Engagement, which is recognized as a                       learning resources available for teachers to integrate
seal that can be affixed to student transcripts,                         civic programming into curriculum across various
diplomas, or certificates of completion.                                 subject areas. In addition, this bill expands the
                                                                         criteria for applicants of the California Serves Grant
“In its first year, 5,369 seniors in the class of 2021                   Program, which was established to make resources
received insignias — a little more than 1% of                            available to local education agencies for professional
graduates.”1 Since 2020, 28,030 Seals of Civic                           learning and instructional materials in civic
Engagement have been awarded to 11th and 12th                            education for high school students, to also include
graders.                                                                 grades 1-8.



1                                                                        2
 https://edsource.org/2022/districts-offer-special-honor-to-encourage-    New Study Finds Alarming Lack of Civic Literacy Among Americans | U.S.
active-civic-engagement/667062                                           Chamber of Commerce Foundation
                                                                              Office of Senator Monique Limón | Last Updated 03.06.2025
Senate Bill 584
Civic Learning in Grades 1-8: Creating
Pathways for the Seal of Civic Engagement

This bill is modeled after the Biliteracy Pathway
Recognition, which recognizes P, K – middle school
students who have demonstrated progress toward
proficiency in speaking, reading, and writing in one
or more languages in addition to English. This
recognition is an entry for biliteracy or multiliteracy,
thus preparing students to earn the State Seal of
Biliteracy as graduating seniors. SB 584 will create a
similar pathway for civic learning, thus preparing
students to earn the State Seal of Civic Engagement
in high school.

SUPPORT
Sacramento County Office of Education (Co-
Sponsor)
Los Angeles County Office of Education (Co-
Sponsor)

OPPOSITION
None on File

STAFF CONTACT
Mariana.Sabeniano@sen.ca.gov - 916.651.4021
Eileen.Amador@sen.ca.gov – 916.651.4021




                                                           Office of Senator Monique Limón | Last Updated 03.06.2025
