Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 12:30 p.m.
Friday, April 4, 2025

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Brown called the regular meeting to order at 12:34 p.m.

Other Board members present: Paul Keefer, Bina Lefkovitz, Vanessa Caigoy, Mariana
Corona Sabeniano, and Heather Davis. SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing
Students Judith Marquez was present. Harold Fong was absent.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Dr.
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendents Brent Malicote and Nicolas Schweizer, Assistant Superintendents
Michael Kast, Channa Pitt, and Jacqueline “Jackie” White; Executive Directors Xanthi
Soriano and Jerry Jones; Director Shanine Coats, and Executive Assistant Wende
Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Caigoy led the Pledge of Allegiance.
President Brown read a Land Acknowledgement.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

There were no public comments.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no presentations from employee organizations.

C. Pledge of Allegiance

3. Adoption of Agenda

A. Adoption of Agenda



04.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         1
Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented by Trustee Keefer, second
by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy
Absent: Fong

4. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

5. Reports and Student Presentations

A. SCOE School Program Overviews - Jacqueline White/Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendents Jacqueline White and Michael Kast provided an overview of
SCOE School Programs. The following staff were also present to report on various
SCOE programs: Randy Olson, Infant Development Program; Principal Jillian Friend,
Foundations Program; Principal Barb Modlin, El Centro; Principal Craig Bradford,
Community School Programs; and Principal Lauren Roth, Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School.

The Board meeting was recessed for classroom tours at 12:55 p.m.
The Board meeting was called back to order at 1:34 p.m.

B. Student Presentations - Jacqueline White/Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendents Jacqueline White and Michael Kast introduced students from
the following schools to report on their educational experience: Wilson C. Riles Middle
School, Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School, Elinor Lincoln Hickey Jr./Sr. High School, and
North Area Senior Extension Program.

6. Superintendents Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

On March 19, our Reentry Program at the Yolo County Day Reporting Center held a
graduation ceremony at the Community and Senior Center in Woodland where 190
clients successfully completed their program. Thank you, Deputy Superintendent Nancy
Herota and Assistant Superintendent Kast for attending.

SCOE held a Region 3 Arts Convening at CSU Sacramento on March 24. More than 60
attendees, including district Arts leads, Arts Nonprofits, and post-secondary partners
participated. The event highlighted regional Arts organizations and their work in schools.
CSU Sacramento Arts Department was in attendance and shared important resources
for students and the community as well as their teacher credential programs. Thank
you, Assistant Superintendent Jackie White and Executive Director of SCOE’s School of



04.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           2
Education, Dr. Winlock, for facilitating this convening.

On March 25, SCOE hosted a webinar for students, families, and community members
about immigration resources and enforcement issues impacting students, families, and
our schools. Local experts presented, including: Guadalupe Delgado, our Director for
Cal-SOAP, who provided information about college financial aid opportunities; Giselle
Garcia, a representative for NorCal Resist and a UC Davis Aoki Fellow, offered
guidance for students and families identifying and responding to immigration
enforcement; and Blake Nordahl, Supervising Attorney from the McGeorge Immigration
Law Clinic, who presented potential pathways to legal status.

On March 27, the Sacramento County READS literacy initiative team hosted their final
Community of Practice for this school year focused on "The Power of Partnership:
Engaging Families and Communities to Enhance Literacy Outcomes.” Dr. Terica Butler
highlighted successful collaborations between Local Education Agencies and
community organizations. Highlights included Partner Presentations and Community
Village where more than a dozen community-based organizations came together to
share local solutions to improve literacy. Thank you, Trustee Lefkovitz for attending.

On March 28, at Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School, SCOE and Congressman Bera
hosted a Round Table Discussion and Press Conference with educational leaders to
discuss the impacts of the federal education cuts on Sacramento-area schools. ABC10,
the Sacramento Bee, and Capital Public Radio were present at the press conference
that followed the discussion. Thank you, Board President Brown, and Trustee Lefkovitz
for attending. And thank you to Assistant Superintendent Michael Kast and Executive
Director Xanthi Soriano as well as SCOE’s Support Services team for your help with this
event.

On April 1, at the Sofia Theater in Sacramento, SCOE hosted a screening of the
powerful documentary Hopeville: How to Win the Reading Wars. Thank you to Trustees
Davis, Lefkovitz, and Caigoy for attending.

On April 1 and 2 more than 300 participants attended our annual Counselor Spring
Institute at CSU Sacramento. Thank you, Assistant Superintendent Jackie White and
her team for holding another fabulous event. Also at CSU Sacramento, on April 2, we
held our Dual Enrollment convening where more than 80 local partners and district
leaders gathered. Thank you to Trustee Lefkovitz for attending. The theme of the
convening, “Together We Thrive,” captures the spirit of what we’re building—a
collaborative, inclusive, and future-ready region, where all students have access to early
college opportunities and a clear path to success.

In school news, State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond recently
announced that 336 elementary schools have been selected for the prestigious 2025
California Distinguished Schools Program. Eight elementary schools in Sacramento
County were selected, including two in Elk Grove Unified, three in Folsom-Cordova
Unified, one in Natomas Unified, one in River Delta Joint Unified, and one in



04.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           3
Sacramento City Unified.

Last week, in partnership with the Los Angeles County Office of Education, SCOE
deployed clinicians to provide support services for Pasadena Unified School District
students, who were severely impacted by the recent fires. SCOE clinicians are assisting
students with managing their emotional and psychological well-being, and managing
symptoms of anxiety, depression, and stress. Health and wellness staff are collaborating
with teachers, parents, and school staff to help create and maintain supportive learning
environments and connect students with community resources. Their mission was
simple but powerful: provide immediate crisis intervention, connect families with basic
needs resources, and ensure long-term mental health support is within reach.

On April 12, SCOE is hosting our annual Sacramento County teacher and school leader
career fair. All 13 school districts, several charters, and a few neighboring districts
outside of Sacramento County will be present. The event will be held at SCOE in the
David P. Meaney Education Center.

At El Centro Jr./Sr. High School on April 16, we will celebrate five students who have
met their graduation requirements and will receive their high school diplomas. We’re
looking forward to another Placer Reentry Graduation which will be held at the Health
and Human Services Center in Auburn on April 24, 2025. We understand that at this
graduation, Congressman Kevin Kiley has asked to attend and participate in honoring
the graduates.

In continued recognition and celebration of our 2025 Sacramento County Teachers of
the Year, we will be hosted at the Sutter Health Ballpark for a River Cats game against
the Salt Lake City Bees. The game is scheduled for April 19 with the first pitch at 6:37
p.m.

B. Recognition of the May Employees of the Month - Xanthi Soriano

Mark (Stephen) Benson, Transition Specialist at Elinor Lincoln Hickey Jr./Sr. High
School was recognized and honored as Classified Employee of the Month for May
2025.

Maureen Loft, Special Education Teacher at Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School was
recognized and honored as Certificated Employee of the Month for May 2025.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy



04.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             4
Absent: Fong

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
White/Michael Kast

The following 21 students are scheduled to graduate from each of their respective
schools and they have completed all requirements for high school graduation: six
candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. - Senior Extension; one candidate from
El Centro Jr./Sr. High School; five candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior
Extension, and nine candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. No Contracts

9. New Business - Other

A. Pending Legislation - Senate Bill 584 - David W. Gordon

Motion to approve and send a letter of support for Senate Bill 584 (Limón) - Civic
Learning in Grades 1-8: Creating Pathways for the Seal of Civic Engagement by
Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy
Abstain: Corona Sabeniano
Absent: Fong

B. NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING for Sacramento County Office of Education's Special
Education Programs 2024/2025 Extended School Year Schedule

Assistant Superintendent Michael Kast presented this item regarding SCOE's Special
Education Programs 2024-2025 Extended School Year Schedule.

Public Hearing Opened at 2:20 p.m.

There were no public comments.

Public Hearing Closed at 2:21 p.m.

Motion to approve by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy



04.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                       5
Absent: Fong

10. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Caigoy stated that she attended the Literacy Screening, "Hopeville,” and
thanked SCOE staff for answering many of her questions. She commented that she is
interested in learning more about what we are doing within our schools and how we are
focused on the teaching of phonics with our students, especially those who are
performing below grade level. She requested the demographic breakdown and if there
are any misassignments associated with those teaching those courses. Trustee Caigoy
expressed interest in hearing more from ACCBE. She questioned what the term limits
are for the SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing Students and how the Board
can be more involved in this position. She also reported that, on April 5, her sorority is
hosting its seventh financial literacy youth summit at CSU Sacramento in partnership
with the Black Honors College and is looking for volunteers to help.

Trustee Lefkovitz expressed appreciation for today’s student presentations and
classroom visits. She offered her support to help accelerate the plans to strengthen
instruction in programs that Assistant Superintendent White shared. Trustee Lefkovitz
attended listening sessions and is interested in a summary of the comments and the
plans for SCOE to respond. She stated that she enjoyed attending the Community
Based Learning event, the Sacramento READS Community of Practice, the Literacy
Screening "Hopeville," and the Dual Enrollment Convening. She expressed concerns
around the role of the SCOE Student Board member, term limits, student selection, and
onboarding of the student, and would like an opportunity for the Board to be more
involved.

Trustee Davis expressed a desire for the Board to work even more collaboratively with
SCOE staff. She stated that she has been on the Board nine years, and she knows how
much work goes into events like today, from setting up equipment to the lunch
preparation.

Vice President Corona Sabeniano stated that she enjoyed hearing from the students
today. She provided an update regarding the process for adding items to the Board
agenda and how those will be tracked and stated that there will be a process for follow-
up.

Trustee Keefer thanked the staff for their work today and support of the students. He
also expressed interest in having a process for how to give the Board space on the
agenda to discuss various topics of their choosing. He stated that Ms. Marquez should
retain her seat until the specifics of the role are defined. Trustee Keefer provided an
example of a way to help students. He stated that his Rotary Club hosts a golf
tournament to raise funds to pay for students to take a day trip to Disneyland. They
raised $16,000 and sent 14 students on a day trip which exposed them to new and



04.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            6
potentially life-changing experiences. He suggested that the Board consider the idea of
partnering with Peak Adventures and the Sac State Outdoor Adventure program to help
students get outdoors and experience new things. He would like to help the
Superintendent find monies to ensure that all of our students have these opportunities.

Ms. Marquez reported that the student advisory committees at Nathaniel S. Colley and
Elinor L. Hickey Jr./Sr. High Schools share an interest in being part of a solution-
oriented project around substance misuse. She stated that she met with Assistant
Superintendent White to discuss collaborating with Narcotics Anonymous and the best
approach for bringing that program to a site. She also expressed appreciation to the
mental health clinician at Palmiter for meeting with the students and sharing resources
for substance misuse help. She also reported that she has been working in
collaboration with some of the administration to plan a “field day” with staff, admin, and
students to bridge those relationship gaps and build and strengthen those relationships.
She asked if anyone knows of paid summer programs or internships for high school
students. She concluded by encouraging everyone to continue acting in urgency to
tackle the issue of substance abuse amongst our youth and continue working on ways
to provide students with knowledge and resources.

B. Board President

No report.

C. Committees

11. Items for Distribution

A. April Events/Site Visits

12. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. April 15, 2025 and May 6, 2025

13. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Caigoy
Absent: Fong

The meeting was adjourned at 2:43 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,



04.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           7
David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




04.04.25 Board Meeting Minutes   8
