       l           I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   ~•;I~                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700

  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                             Thursday, July 24, 2025 - 6:00 PM
Ted Wood
                                            Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                   10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4                                       Board Room - Second Floor
John Costa                                             Mather, California
Board Vice President                                           &
Division 9
                                                      Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                   Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                      Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                    'ii Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member             https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Division 1


Grant Goold
Board Member
                       The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D'Elman Clark          Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member
                       accommodations:
Division 8
                                                                Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties




                                                                                                                                 P1
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, JULY 24, 2025



►     CALL TO ORDER

►     ROLL CALL

►     PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
  This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
. cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
  and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
  streamed at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov. Today's meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
  July 28, 2025, and again at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, July 31, 2025, on Metro Cable
  Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand at
  youtube.comlmetrocable 14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers' comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).
In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

 CONSENT ITEMS:
 Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
 issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
 declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
 upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

 CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                     Page No.


 1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                             5
        Recommendation: Approve th e Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
        Board Meeting of July 10, 2025.

 2.     Request for Exception to Formal Solicitation Process - ImageTrend                  1O
        Contract Renewal (3 years)
        Recommendation: Approve an exception to the formal solicitation process and
        authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to negotiate, execute, and administer the
        renewal of the ImageTrend subscription agreement.
                                                                                                                               P2
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                    THURSDAY, JULY 24, 2025



3.   Adopt Resolution - Surplus IT Equipment                                        17
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the disposal of the District's I.T.
     Division surplus equipment.

4.   Memorandum of Understanding with the City of Rancho Cordova for                     20
     Funding of Squad 61 Enhanced Fire Protection & Emergency Medical Services
     Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief to sign the MOU to provide enhanced
     services to the City and facilitate the acceptance of up to $825,000 in payment for
     those services in FY 2025/26.

ACTION ITEMS:
1.   Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement - Captain Michael                 **
     Ryan Gifford
     Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a
     Resolution finding Michael Ryan Gifford has suffered job-related injuries incapacitating
     him for the performance of duties as a Captain, and direct staff to continue working
     with Captain Gifford through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with
     CalPERS.

REPORTS:

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                (President Wood)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -                (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

            OPERATIONS REPORT - (Assistant Chief Johnson)
            ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

            SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman) - No Report

3.   SMFD- FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
     522 Vice President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

     A.     Executive Committee - (President Wood)
            Met Today; Next Meeting: TBD

     B.     Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
            Next Meeting: July 22, 2025 & August 26, 2025 at 9:00 AM
            SRFECC Annex - 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite 200, Sacramento

                                                                                                                        P3
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                          THURSDAY, JULY 24, 2025


         C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
                Next Meeting: August 28, 2025, at 5:30 PM

         D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
                Next Meeting: August 14, 2025, at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter(s):

1. PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (a) -
   ONE (1) MATTER OF INDUSTRIAL DISABILITY RETIREMENT.

    1.   Michael Ryan Gifford and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Claim## 4A2301 SLCVZ0001 - Industrial Disability Retirement
         Joseph Fiorica, Deputy Chief of Administration

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

    •    Regular Board Meeting -August 14, 2025, at 6:00 PM

Posted on July 21, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.



Marni Rittburg~ G,CPM
Clerk of the Board

** No written report
•ID Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility.




                                                                                                                              P4
