                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
     Todd Harms
      Fire Chief
                                           BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING

                                         Thursday, December 8, 2022 – 6:00 PM
                                               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Cinthia Saylors                                     10545 Armstrong Avenue
Board President
Division 1
                                                   Board Room – Second Floor
                                                        Mather, California
D’Elman Clark                                                   &
Board Vice President
Division 6                                             Remotely Via Zoom
                                                      Phone: (669) 900-6833
Vacant
Board Secretary                                    Webinar ID: 875 1535 5024#
                                                     Passcode: 568 510 933#
Grant Goold
Board Member
Division 2
                           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
                               and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.
Elected Official
Board Member
Division 3
                       The Governor has declared a State of Emergency to exist in California as a result of
                       the threat of COVID-19 (aka the “Coronavirus”). The Governor issued Executive
Ted Wood               Order N-25-20 and N-29-20, which directs Californians to follow public health
Board Member           directives including canceling large gatherings. Per the State of Emergency effective
Division 4
                       March 2, 2020, the Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Jennifer Sheetz        proclaimed that a local emergency exists, and authorized remote teleconference
Board Member           meetings from November 10, 2022 through December 9, 2022 pursuant to Brown Act
Division 5             provisions.
Brian Rice
Board Member           The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of the
Division 7             Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all appropriate health
Gay Jones              safety precautions. If you would like to view the meeting via the Zoom
Board Member           Application, please contact Board Clerk Penilla via email at the address listed
Division 8             below.
Elected Official
Board Member           Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Division 9             reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
                       reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance
                       of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable accommodations:

                                                                  Melissa Penilla
                                                                    Board Clerk
                                                                  (916) 859-4305
                                                         penilla.melissa@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.



                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                   THURSDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2022


CALL TO ORDER
ROLL CALL
PLEDGE TO FLAG – HONOR GUARD TO PRESENT COLORS
METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT
The Open Session Meeting is videotaped for cablecast on Metro Cable 14. Replay on
Saturday, December 10th at 2:00 pm and Monday, December 12th at 6:00pm on Channel 14;
Webcast at metro14live.saccounty.net.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN DISTRICT
JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and encourages public
interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public members desiring to address the
Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding officer and identify themselves for the record.
The presiding officer may in the interest of time and good order limit the number of public member
presentations. Speakers’ comments will be limited to three minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members of the Public
requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be present or have a
representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of issues to
committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval, declaration of surplus
equipment, and other consent matters. Consent Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board
member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                 Page No.
1.   Action Summary Minutes                                                      6
     Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board
     meeting of November 10, 2022.

2.      Action Summary Minutes                                                                                       12
        Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Special Board
        meeting of November 12, 2022.

3.      Action Summary Minutes                                                                                       13
        Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Special Board
        meeting of November 15, 2022.

4.      2023 Schedule of Regular and Committee Board Meetings                                                        14
        Recommendation: Approve the 2023 schedule of regular and committee board
        meetings and cancel meetings that fall on or near holidays.

5.      Quarterly Investment Report from September 2022                                                              16
        Recommendation: Receive and file the investment report for the 1st quarter
        of Fiscal Year 2022-23.
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                     THURSDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2022



6.     Certified Election Results – General Election, November 8, 2022                                                   18**
            **      Separate Attachment
       Recommendation: Accept certified results of the November 8, 2022 General
       District Election as provided by the Certificate of Facts from the Registrar of Voters,
       County of Sacramento and County of Placer.

7.     Purchase of Motorola 800 MHz Radios                                                                               19
       Recommendation: Approve the purchase of new Motorola 800 MHz Radios
       and related accessories not to exceed the budgeted amount of $165,000.

8.     Award Recommendation – RFP 22-05 Real Estate Brokerage Services                                                   20
       Recommendation: Adopt a resolution authorizing the Fire Chief to execute
       non-exclusive agreements for real estate brokerage services with Turton
       Commercial Real Estate, CBRE Inc., and Cushman and Wakefield for an initial
       term of five years.


PRESENTATION ITEMS
1.   Board Member Swearing-In Ceremony (Chief Harms)                                                                     *
     Recommendation: Swear-In elected officials for Divisions 1, 3, 7, and 9 for the
     2022-2026 term.

2.     Present Chief Harms with Retirement Resolution (President Saylors)                                                *
       Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.

3.     Honor Guard (Captain Steve Mayer)                                                                                 *
       Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.


ACTION ITEMS
1.   Labor Negotiations - Memorandums of Understanding                                                                   **
     and Unrepresented Resolutions
       **        Separate Attachment for items A-D
       A. Resolution – Memorandum of Understanding by and between                                                   33
          SMFD and the Sacramento Area Firefighters Local 522
       B. Resolution – Memorandum of Understanding by and between                                                   34
          SMFD and the Battalion Chief’s Organization
       C. Resolution – Memorandum of Understanding by and between                                                   35
          SMFD and the Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
       D. Resolution – Memorandum of Understanding by and between                                                   36
          SMFD and EMT and Paramedic
       E. Resolution – Senior Safety Management and Safety Management                                               37
          Employees
       F. Resolution – Non-Safety Senior Management, Management,                                                    51
          and Unrepresented Confidential Employees
       Recommendation: Adopt Labor Negotiation Resolutions.
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2022


2.    Ratification of Resolution to Extend Teleconference of Board                                                   68
      Meetings (Government Code 54953(e) (3)) (President Saylors)
      Recommendation: Consider adopting a Resolution which would extend the
      ability to teleconference without compliance of Government Code paragraph
      (3) of subdivision (b) of section 54953 from December 8, 2022 – January 6,
      2023 or until further re-ratified.

3.    Election of Board Officers (Board Clerk Penilla)                                                               70
      Recommendation: Nominate and elect members of the Board to serve as:
      a) President, b) Vice President, and c) Secretary for one (1) year terms
      to commence January 1, 2023.

4.    Resolution – Commending Director White                                                                         72
      (Chief Harms and Board Clerk Penilla)
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution commending Director White.

REPORTS
1.   PRESIDENT’S REPORT—(President Saylors)

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT—(Fire Chief Harms)
            OPERATIONS’ REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

3.    SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice President)

4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
      10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.
      A.      Executive Committee – (President Saylors)
              Next Meeting: January 12, 2023 at 5:30 pm

      B.      Communications Center JPA – (DC Wagaman)
              Next Meeting: December 13, 2022 at 9:00 AM

      C.      Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Wood)
              Next Meeting: January 26, 2023 at TBD

      D.      Policy Committee – (Director Goold)
              Next Meeting: TBD


BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS


CLOSED SESSION
1.   Conference with Labor Negotiator
     Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6
     A. District Negotiator:    Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
        Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                      THURSDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2022


           B. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
              Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                     Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

           C. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
              Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                     Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

           D. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
              Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                     and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

           E. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
              Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                     and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, 10545
Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA
     •     Regular Board Meeting – January 12, 2023 at 6:00 PM

The following action and presentation items are scheduled for the next board meeting agenda.
Board members are requested to identify additional action or presentation items they desire to
be scheduled on the agenda.
ANTICIPATED AGENDA ITEMS: TBD

Posted on December 5, 2022


______________________________________
Melissa Penilla, Clerk of the Board
* No written report
**       Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
