       1           I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   ~.;;.#               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700

  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA

                                             Thursday, July 10, 2025 - 6:00 PM
Ted Wood
                                            Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                   10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4
                                                 Board Room - Second Floor
John Costa                                            Mather, California
Board Vice President                                          &
Division 9
                                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                   Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                     Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                    if Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member            https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Division 1


Grant Goold
Board Member           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D'Elman Clark          Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member           reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member           accommodations:
Division 8
                                                              Marni Rittburg
                                                                Board Clerk
                                                              (916) 859-4305
                                                     rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, JULY 10, 2025


►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov. Today's meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
July 14, 2025, and again at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, July 16, 2025, on Metro Cable
Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand at
you tube.comlmetrocable 14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers' comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
                                                                                         \
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                      Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                               5
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meetings of June 12, 2025, and June 26, 2025.

2.     Adopt Resolution - Exempt Surplus Real Property- 9116 Vancouver Dr.                                                 20
       Recommendation: Adopt Resolution declaring the property as exempt surplus
       property based on the findings and authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to
       continue the disposition process.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                    THURSDAY, JULY 10, 2025


3.   Adopt Resolution - Contract Award - Fire Station 67 Station Alerting               23
     System
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the Request for Exception to Formal
     Solicitation and award a contract to WestNet, LLC for the Fire Station 67 Altering
     System.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.   Present the SDLF Transparency Certificate of Excellence to the Fire Chief                                          **
     and Board
     (CSDA, Senior Public Affairs Coordinator, Dane Wadle')
     Recommendation: Receive the Certificate of Excellence.

ACTION ITEMS:

1.   Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement - Captain Eric                    **
     Kellenberger
     Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a
     Resolution finding Captain Kellenberger has suffered job-related injuries incapacitating
     him for the performance of duties as a Captain, and direct staff to continue working
     with Captain Whaley through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with
     CalPERS.

REPORTS:

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                (President Wood)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -               (Chief House)

            OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
            ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

            SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman) - No Report

3.   SMFD- FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
     522 Vice President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

     A.     Executive Committee - (President Wood)
            Next Meeting: TBD
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                          THURSDAY, JULY 10, 2025


         B.     Communications Center JPA- (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
                Next Meeting: July 22, 2025, at 9:00 AM
                SRFECC Annex - 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite B, Sacramento

         C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
                Next Meeting: August 28, 2025, at 5:30 PM

         D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
                Next Meeting: August 14, 2025, at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter(s):

1. PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (A) -
   ONE (1) MATTER OF INDUSTRIAL DISABILITY RETIREMENT.

    1.   Eric Kellenberger and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Claim# 24-180117; 24-182104- Industrial Disability Retirement
         Joseph A. Fiorica, Deputy Chief of Administration

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

    •    Regular Board Meeting - July 24, 2025, at 6:00 PM

Posted on July 7, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.



M
r1~/krt~
Clerk of the Board

** No written report
1Eil Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility.
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

~hi~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief       ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING
                               BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                       SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                   Thursday, June 12, 2025
                                Held at the following locations:
                            10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                       Mather, California
                                                &
                                      Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:01 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
  Clark, Goold, Rice, Saylors, Stark, Webber and Wood. Board members absent: Costa and
  Jones. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.                  ,

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  No public comments were received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by members
  present to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.      Action Summary Minutes
          Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
          of May 8, 2025.
          Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.
  2.      Final Reading and Adoption of Ordinance No. 2025-01, Adopting the 2025 Fire
          Hazard Severity Zone Map Ordinance
          Recommendation: Adopt Ordinance 2025-01, thereby adopting the 2025 Fire Hazard
          Severity Zone Map as required by the State Fire Marshal.
          Action: Adopted Ordinance No. 2025-01 .

  3.      Adopt Resolution - Request for Exception to the Formal Solicitation Process -
          Professional Services Contract with Concern for Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
          Services
          Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving an exception to the formal solicitation
          process and authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to negotiate, execute, and
          administer a one-year agreement materially similar to the attachment agreement with
          Concern for the provision of EAP services.
          Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-046.



                                                                                                            PS
4.    Adopt Resolution - County of Sacramento Hazardous Materials Response
      Teams Agreement
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the Fire Chief or his designee to
      execute and administer an agreement between the County of Sacramento and the
      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District for Hazardous Materials Response Teams.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-047.

5.    Adopt Resolution - Voluntary Rate Range .Program (VRRP) with State of California
      Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) for Intergovernmental Transfers (IGT) from
      January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024.
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution reauthorizing the Fire Chief to enter into the necessary
      agreements with DHCS to participate in the VRRP IGT reimbursement period covering
      January 1, 2024 through December 31, 2024.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-048.

6.    Adopt Resolution - Temporary Construction Easement - Watt/Myrtle                       71
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the execution of a Temporary
      Construction Easement with Pacific Gas and Electric Company.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-049.

7.    Adopt Resolution - Surplus Equipment                                                   77
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the disposal of the I.T. Division's
      surplus equipment.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-050.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.    CRRD - 2025 Fireworks Season
      (Fire Marshal Amy Nygren)
      Recommendation: Receive the presentation.
      Action: Presentation received.

ACTION ITEMS

1.    Adopt Resolution - Capital Improvement Plan FY 25126 - 29130
      (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation and adopt Resolution adopting the Capital
      Improvement Plan FY 2025/2026 - FY 2029/2030.
      Action: Moved by Director Stark, seconded by Goold, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-033, adopting the Capital Improvement Plan
      FY 2025/2026 - FY 2029/2030.

2.    Adopt Resolutions - Revisions to Fiscal Year (FY) 2024125 Budget
      (Chief Financial Officer Dave O'Toole)
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolutions revising the FY 2024/25 Midyear Budget.
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-034, adopting a Budget Amendment to the
      Midyear Budget For The General Fund 212A for Fiscal Year 2024/25.
      Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-035, adopting a Budget Amendment to the
      Midyear Budget for the. Capital Facilities Fund 2120 for Fiscal Year 2024/25.

                                                                                                  P6
6.12.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                 Page 2 of 7
3.    Adopt Resolutions - FY 2025/26 Preliminary Budget
      (Dave O'Toole, Chief Financial Officer)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation and adopt the Resolutions adopting the
      Preliminary Budget for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

      A. Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the General Operating Fund 212A
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-036, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
      the General Operating Fund 212A for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      8. Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Capital Facilities Fund 2120
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to, adopt Resolution 2025-037, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
      the Capital Facilities Fund 212D for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      C. Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Pension Obligation Fund 212E
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-038, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
      the Pension Obligation Fund 212E for Fiscal Year 2025/26.                     •

      D. Resolution - 2025/26 Committed Fund Balance for the Pension Obligation Fund
          212E
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-03~, Adopting the Commited Fund Balance
      for the Pension Obligation Fund 212E for Fiscal Year 2025/26,

      E. Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Grants Fund 212G
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-040, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
      the Grants Fund 212G for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

       F. Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Development Impact Fees Fund
          2121
       Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
       members present to adopt Resolution 2025-041, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
     • the Development Impact Fees Fund 2121 for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      G.    Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Leased Properties Fund 212L
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimodsly by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-042, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
      the Leased Properties Fund 212L for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

      H. Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Measure O Debt Service Fund 212N
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-043, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
      the Measure O Debt Service Fund 212N for Fiscal Year 2025/26,

      I. Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Measure O Building Fund 2120
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-044, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
      the Measure O Building Fund 2120 for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

                                                                              Page 3 of 7
                                                                                            P7
6.12.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
          J. Resolution - 2025/26 Preliminary Budget for the Special Projects Fund 212S
          Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
          members present to adopt Resolution 2025-045, Adopting the Preliminary Budget for
          the Special Projects Fund 212S for Fiscal Year 2025/26.

4.        Establish an Ad Hoc Committee for Ongoing Advice for Measure 0
          Implementation and Strategic Planning.
          (Board President Ted Wood)                                                 (
          Recommendation: Appoint three Board Members to an Ad Hoc Committee for ongoing
          advice for Measure O implementation and strategic planning.
          Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Goold, and carried unanimously
          by members present to appoint Director Clark, Director Rice and Director Stark to
          an Ad Hoc Committee for ongoing advice for Measure O implementation and
          strategic planning.

REPORTS

1.       PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

          No Report

2.       FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT- (Chief House)

Good evening, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public

Rancho Cordova Leadership Program

     •    Battalion Chief Ryan Pittman and Payroll Specialist Emily Brown are graduating
          tonight from the Leadership Rancho Cordova program, hosted by the Rancho Cordova
          Chamber of Commerce.
     •    This year-long program develops leadership skills, expands local government and
          community knowledge, and fosters regional collaboration.
     •    We're proud of their commitment to professional growth and their role in representing
          Metro Fire in the broader Rancho Cordova community.

Academy

I spent a few hours today with our Fire Academy and Fire Behavior Cadre. Thank you to the
entire team for your outstanding work in developing the next generation of Metro Fire
firefighters- and thank you to the recruits for their hard work, commitment, and focus.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Out-of-Class Assistant Chief Daly)

AC Mike Johnson introduced Captain Tony Ramos who was newly promoted to Captain.
Captain Ramos spoke about his experiences at Metro Fire.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

COMMUNITY RELATIONS DIVISION
Fire Camp starts on June 17, 2025. We are excited to welcome 20 counselors and 80
campers next week to Fire Camp, where youth will practice teamwork, learn life-saving skills,
and experience what it's like to be a firefighter! We're also proud to partner with Capital City

6.12.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 4 of 7
                                                                                                   PB
CPR, SMUD, and FFBI this year at Fire Camp. Together, we foster a shared investment in
the success and safety of our communities. We look forward to the meaningful experiences
and memories our campers will make!

     •   Day 1 - FFBI will lead an interactive home escape demonstration
     •   Day 2 - Capital City CPR will oversee Hands-only CPR with biofeedback manikins and
         introduce campers to AEDs, and SMUD's education team will come in to present on
         Electrical Safety.

Food Sponsors: Raising Cane's, Chicago Fire Pizza
Program Sponsors: SMUD, CA American Water, Kiwanis Club of Citrus Heights, and our
incredible individual sponsors
In-kind sponsors: Sun Splash, Capital City CPR, Roseville Fire Department, Firefighters
Burn Institute

SUPPORT SERVICES - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

No Report

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (BC Matt Cole, Local 522)
     BC Matt Cole expressed concerns over brownouts and that the MMP transitions have
     stopped. Crews have too many mandatories and I'm concerned what the summer will be
     like. We need to collaborate to come up with a creative solution.

4.       COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
         Alf Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
         10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather; California unless otherwise specified.


         A.      Executive Committee - (President Wood)

                  No Report

         8.       Communications Center JPA- (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
                  The Communication Center JPA Board last met on June 10, 2025. During that
                  meeting the Board approved the Fiscal Year 25/26 preliminary budget for the
                  comm center. There was no other significant action taken.

         C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
                  No Report

         D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)

                  The Policy Committee met tonight on two Board policies: 1. Purchasing and
                  Contracting Policy. 2. Debt Management Policy. Both policies will come to the
                  full Board at the next Board meeting.

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Webber stated that he is hearing rumors that Chief House is on his way out. That is
the furthest thing from the truth. We support the Chief. Also, we would like to look at the
Chief's contract regarding administrative leave, which he currently does not receive.
                                                                                                                      pg
6.12.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                          Page 5 of 7
CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 7:32 p.m. on the following matter(s):

1.    Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) -one (1) matter
      of Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
         Steven Johnson and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Claim # SMDP-549755; 4A230162R3W0001; 4A2306N87J40001
         Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
         Tyler Sonksen, Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP
      Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Goold, and carried unanimously by members
      present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a settlement of the
      Workers' Compensation matter.

2.    CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - PENDING LITIGATION -
      PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9(d)(1)

         Ty Bailey v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         EAMS No. ADJ 18553924 and ADJ 20643634

3.    CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL -ANTICIPATED LITIGATION -
      Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
      Section 54956.9 (b): One Case

          Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
          State Farm a/s/o Levell Thomas v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          General Counsel John Lavra & Board Clerk Marni Rittburg

      Moved by Director Goold, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by members
      present to deny the 910 Claim and refer to insurance.

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened in open session at 8:42 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
that the Board met in closed session on three items: 1. Workers' Compensation Settlement
Authority: Steven Johnson Workers' Compensation Claim, the Board voted unanimously to
give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a settlement of the matter. 2.
Pending Litigation, Bailey v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, no reportable action. 3.
910 Claim against the District, State Farm a/s/o Levell Thomas v. Sacramento Metropolitan
Fire District, the Board voted unanimously to deny the claim and refer to insurance carrier.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire. ca.gov/2025-06-12-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ . QA




                                                                                  Page 6 of7
                                                                                                   P10
6.12.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:44 p.m.



Ted Wood, Board President                        Robert Webber, Secretary



Marni Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk




                                                                            Page 7 of 7
                                                                                          P11
6.12.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief      ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING
                              BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                      SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                   Thursday, June 26, 2025
                               Held at the following locations:
                           10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                      Mather, California
                                               &
                                     Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:01 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Rice, Saylors, Webber and Wood. Remotely on Zoom: Jones. Board members
  absent: Goold, and Stark. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  No public comments were received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by members
  present to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.      Action Summary Minutes
          Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
          of May 22, 2025.
          Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.      Board Policy 01.012.01 - Debt Management Policy
          Recommendation: Approve the amendments to the Debt Management Policy.
          Action: Adopted the Debt Management Policy.

  3.      Board Policy 01.010.03 - Purchasing and Contracting Policy
          Recommendation: Approve the amendments to the Purchasing and Contracting Policy.
          Action: Adopted the Purchasing and Contracting Policy.

  4.     Disclosure of Material Expenditure - Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance -
         Safety National Casualty Corporation - $537,745.00
         Recommendation: Authorize a payment of $537,745.00 to Safety National Casualty
         Corporation for Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance.
         Action: Authorized a payment of $537,745.00 to Safety National Casualty Corporation for
         Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance.


                                                                                                          P12
5.    Disclosure of Material Expenditure - General/Property/Liability Commercial
      Insurance - Fire Agencies Insurance Rick Authority (FAIRA) for the FY 25/26 -
      $3,031,6555
      Recommendation: Authorize a payment of $3,031,655.00 to Fire Agencies Insurance
      Risk Authority (FAIRA) for commercial insurance.
      Recommendation: Authorized a payment of $3,031,655.00 to Fire Agencies Insurance
      Risk Authority (FAIRA) for commercial insurance.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.    Measure O General Obligation Bond Issuance
      (Chief Financial Officer Dave O'Toole)
      Recommendation: Receive the presentation .
      Action: Presentation received.

ACTION ITEMS

1.     Disclosure of Material Expenditure - Excess General Liability Insurance -
       Vantage Risk Specialty Insurance Company for $307,992.30 and Westchester
       Surplus Lines Insurance Company for $215,439.84
       (Brad Svennungsen, USI Insurance Services
       Recommendation: Authorize payment of $307,992.30 to Vantage Risk Specialty
       Insurance Company and $215,439.84 to Westchester Surplus Lines Insurance
       Company for Excess General Liability Insurance.
       Recommendation: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Webber, and carried
       unanimously by members present to authorize a payment of $307,992.30 to Vantage Risk
       Specialty Insurance Company and $215,439.84 to Westchester Surplus Lines Insurance
      •Company for Excess General Liability Insurance.

2.     Sacramento Local Agency Formation Commission (LAFCo) - Nominations for Special
       District Commissioners
       (Board Clerk Marni Rittburg)
       Recommendation: Nominate Director Jones to Sacramento LAFCo for the Special
       District Commissioner seat as a full voting member to serve a 4-year term.
       Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously
       by members present to nominate Director Jones to Sacramento LAFCo for the
       Special District Commissioner seat as a full voting member to serve a 4-year term.

REPORTS

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

       No Report

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -         (Chief House)

Good evening, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public

New Hire:
Please join me in welcoming Arthur Klets, hired for the position of Fire Inspector I in the
Community Risk Reduction Division, effective June 23.
6.26.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 2 of 7
                                                                                                 P13
Promotions:
Congratulations to following
   • Anthony Berkey for being promoted to Fire Inspector I effective June 23.
   • Jasmine Vu for being promoted to Plan Intake Specialist effective June 23.
   • Ray Mora for being promoted to Engineer effective June 13.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

1. Service Delivery Changes to Address Staffing

   •   Following up on the discussion at the last Board meeting about eliminating
       mandatories and brown outs
   •   Operations Staffing Priorities have been, and will continue to be:
           o #1 Eliminate Brownouts
           o #2 Eliminate Mandatory Overtime
           o #3 Increase Service Delivery
           o Our focus and goal to achieve the above priorities is still Spring, 2026. This
              includes fully staffed ranks of both MMPs and firefighters, while having a fully
              staffed pool in both ranks as well. We haven't had this for quite a number of
              years.
           o However, we're not waiting until Spring of next year to be adaptive and respond
              efficiently to the needs of our members and the community.
   •   To reinforce the last point, Ops brought forward a plan to exec staff the week following
       the last Board meeting, which had been in development for a while, to transition two
       FDM ambulances to MMP ambulances.
   •   Current staffing levels support the transition and don't burden any of our members
       unnecessarily
   •   Allows for a pool of firefighters immediately to decrease brownouts and mandatory
       callbacks, while still maintaining an MMP pool.
   •   Met with 522, and with some minor changes, we reached an agreement last week.
   •   I'm happy to report that the plan was implemented on Monday of this week, which is
       having an immediate impact on staffing as we move further into summer.

2. Shift Commander Spotlight

   •   Chief Rudnicki introduced new Captain Carlile Who was promoted effective June 9.
       Captain Carlile introduced himself to the Board.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

COMMUNITY RELATIONS DIVISION
  • Last week, Metro Fire hosted an amazing Fire Camp that left 80 kids bursting
    with confidence and a newfound appreciation for teamwork! They experienced
    the rewarding life of a Metro firefighter. A heartfelt thank you goes out to
    everyone who made this incredible experience possible- our dedicated
    firefighters, supportive staff, logistics team, reserves, and explorers, all of whom
    played vital roles. We would also like to extend a huge shout-out to the behind-
    the-scenes divisions, such as finance, fleet, facilities, and logistics, that
    contributed in many valuable ways! Together, we created a week filled with life
    skills and memories that the kids will cherish for years to come.

                                                                                  Page 3 of7
                                                                                                  P14
6.26.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
   •   This week, media coverage was provided for two prescribed burns. To ensure
       the public was informed, we collaborated with several regional agencies,
       including Sacramento Regional Parks, the City of Rancho Cordova, the Board
       of Supervisors, the City of Citrus Heights, and OES.

   •   As we prepare for the 4th of July, our public relations strategy includes several
       key initiatives. We have placed "Keep it Safe, Keep it Legal" stickers on our
       engines to promote the importance of using Safe and Sane fireworks. Our
       social media presence will be enhanced with posts highlighting safety tips.
       Additionally, we aim to secure media coverage that focuses on safety, which
       may include ride-along experiences for journalists to observe our CRRD team in
       action.

FINANCE

   •   The Finance Division received notice recently that it has been officially
       recognized by the Government Finance Officers of America for achieving "Triple
       Crown" status. Specifically, excellence awards were given for three major fiscal
       year 2022-23 reports:
          o Annual Comprehensive Financial Report
          o Popular Annual Financial Report (what we call our Community Annual
             Report), and
          o Annual Final Budget

The District is one of 401 winners across the U.S. and Canada, putting us in the top half of
one percent of all cities, counties, and special districts.

There are only two other fire district winners.

Within California, we're among 48 winners, putting us in the top 1.4% of local governments in
the state.

SUPPORT SERVICES - .(Deputy Chief Wagaman)

Logistics:
  • Promotional opportunity underway from the position of Warehouse Manager - we hope
      to have the position filled with an internal candidate within the next month.
  • In preparation to move station 64 to market, cleanup and asset removal have been
      completed.
  • With continual cost savings in mind, Logistics Manager Siebert is actively renegotiating
      our drinking water machine rental and oxygen tank contracts.

CRRD:

   •   Of the 805 weed abatement inspections conducted, we have seen a compliance rate
       of 85% compared to 76% last year.
   •   In preparation for safe and insane fireworks sales, inspectors will be busy conducting
       152 fireworks stand inspections on Saturday.
   •   Additionally, CRRD staff will be active July 3, 4 and 5 supporting local fireworks
       displays and to assist our Fire Investigations Unit with enforcement, and fire origin &
       cause.

                                                                                  Page 4 of 7
                                                                                                 P15
6.26.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
     •   In effort to enhance public outreach on the use and proper disposal of Safe and Sane
         fireworks, and to reinforce no tolerance for dangerous fireworks use and sales, there
         will be a joint press conference on July 1 with the State Fire Marshal Office, the DA's
         Office, the Sacramento County Sheriff's Department and local agencies. The press
         conference will be held at the McClellan brick yard at 10:00 AM. Fire Marshal Nygren
         will also be attendance.
Facilities:

     •   The station re-flooring project at 53, 31, and 108 have recently been completed.
     •   To help support our PPE laundering program - facilities just completed installing two
         additional washer extractors and a new ultrasonic cleaner at out Logistics building.
     •   Facilities Manager Eachus has finalized an extensive plan to complete several roof
         repairs and HVAC upgrades throughout the district starting July 1, with the Station 50
         apparatus bay first up.
     •   All District owned properties requiring weed abatement have been successfully
         mitigated.

Fleet:

     •   Within the next few weeks, Fleet will be sending one representative down to L.A. to
         inspect two new ambulance re-mounts and a team of six will be heading Wisconsin to
         complete an inspection on 5 new Type I engines.
     •   Fleet has an open recruitment for the position of Shop Assistant with approximately 30
         applications have been received thus far. The final filing date is Tuesday, July 15, at
         4:00 PM .

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
     Captain Sean Scollard reported that Local 522 will be sending over a Notice of Intension
     to Negotiate early next week. We would like to have the District get salary surveys done
     now. We collaborated with the District to reduce brownouts. There is still work to be done
     to be successful but we look forward to having continued conversations. Director Rice
     requested a salary survey be completed for all unrepresented positions.

4.       COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
         All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
         10545 A1mstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.


         A.       Executive Committee - (President Wood)

                  No Report

         8.       Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
                 The Communication Center JPA Board last met on June 24, 2025. During that
                 meeting the Board approved the Fiscal Year 25/26 Final Budget for the
                 Communications Center. The Board was also notified that Assistant Chief
                 Robert Knaggs would be replacing Assistant Chief Scott Williams on the Board
                 as the representative for the Sacramento Fire Department. Chief Williams is
                 retiring after 30 year of service to the Sacramento Fire Department. Chief
                 Williams was thanked for his many years of service.

                                                                                                        Page 5 of 7
                                                                                                                      P16
6.26.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
       C.      Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Clark)
               The Finance and Audit Committee met tonight and received a presentation from
               CFO O'Toole on the Bimonthly Fiscal Report through April 30, 2025. The
               takeaways were: General Fund revenue $8.0 million below budget and $15.4
               million higher than prior year. General Fund expenditures are $7.3 million lower
               than Midyear Budget. Labor costs are trending $1.8 million above Midyear
               Budget estimate. PPGEMT revenues are growing across 28 months.

      D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)

               No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Clark stated he has a great time at Fire Camp. It's one of the most exciting events of
the year. Wishing everyone a happy and safe July 4th .

Director Webber stated that he would like a proclamation or something similar for Brenda
Briggs for running Fire Camp for so many years.

President Wood thanked Brenda Briggs and April West for putting on Fire Camp.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 6:41 p.m. on the following matter(s):

1.    Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) - one (1) matter of
      Workers' Compensation Compromise and Release

          Jason Cahill and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          Claim# 4A2305MHPDS0001
          Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
          Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer
       Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by members
       present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a settlement of the
       matter.
2.     Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) -one (1) matter
       of Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority

            Loren Mansel and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
            Claim # 4A2302G3HGQ0001
            Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
            Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer

       Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Costa, and carried unanimously by members
       present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a settlement of the
       matteL

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened in open session at 6:53 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
that the Board met in closed session on two items: 1. Workers' Compensation Compromise
and Release: Jason Cahill Workers' Compensation Claim, the Board voted unanimously to

                                                                                  Page 6 of 7
                                                                                                    P17
6.26.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a settlement of the matter. 2.
Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority: Loren Mansel Workers' Compensation Claim,
the Board voted unanimously to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a
settlement of the matter.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2025-06-26-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 6:54 p.m.



Ted Wood, Board President                           Robert Webber, Secretary



Marni Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk




                                                                               Page 7 of?
                                                                                               P18
6.26.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority: Loren Mansel Workers' Compensation Claim ,
the Board voted unanimously to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a
settlement of the matter.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2025-06-26-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 6:54 p.m.



Ted Wood, Board President                           Robert Webber, Secretary



Marni Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk




                                                                               Page 7 of 7
                                                                                               P19
6.26.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief


     DATE:            July 10, 2025

     TO:              Board of Directors
     SUBJECT:         Exempt Surplus Real Property- 9116 Vancouver Drive (APN 075-
                      0064-005)

                                                   TOPIC
     Request to adopt a resolution to declare exempt surplus real property for APN 075-0064-005 and
     authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to begin the disposition process.

                                                BACKGROUND
     In accordance with Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (District) Policy #106.1 and the
     California Surplus Land Act (SLA), the District's Board of Directors adopted Resolution 2025-021
     on May 8, 2025, which declared certain real property owned by the District and located at 9116
     Vancouver Drive in Sacramento (Property) as surplus property, and authorized the Fire Chief or
     his designee to begin the disposition process. In accordance with SLA procedures, a Notice of
     Availability (NOA) was prepared for the Property and sent out on June 9, 2025 to the required
     notification list, including the California Department of Housing and Community Development
     (HCD), who oversees SLA compliance.

                                                DISCUSSION
     On June 30, 2025, staff was notified by HCD that the Property may be eligible for a small lot
     exemption to SLA disposal procedures pursuant to Government Code Section 54221 (f)(1)(8), if
     determined by the District to meet the following conditions:

          •    Surplus land that is less than one-half acre in area and is not contiguous to land owned
               by a state or local agency that is used for open-space or low- and moderate-income
               housing purposes (Government Code Section 54221 (f)(1 )(B))
          •    Is not located in a coastal zone; adjacent to a historical unit of the State Parks System;
               listed on, or determined by the State Office of Historic Preservation to be eligible for, the
               National Register of Historic Places; or within the Lake Tahoe region (Government Code
               Section 54221 (f)(2))

     The District has determined that the total area of the Property is 0.18 acres and is not contiguous
     to land owned by a state or local agency that is used for open-space or low- and moderate-income
     housing purposes. Is it also not located in a coastal zone; adjacent to a historical unit of the State
     Parks System; listed on, or determined by the State Office of Historic Preservation to be eligible
     for, the National Register of Historic Places; or within the Lake Tahoe region.

     Based on this information, the Property meets the conditions for a small lot exemption from SLA
     disposal procedures, subject to final approval by HCD. Once approved by HCD, the District may
     dispose of the property without further SLA restrictions. The final disposition and sale of the
     Property will be subject to Board approval.




                                      Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                                P20
Page 2


                                                 FISCAL IMPACT
         The broker's opinion of value for the Property is estimated between $385,000-$418,000.

                                            RECOMMENDATION
         Staff recommends that the Board adopt a resolution declaring the Property as exempt surplus
         property based on the findings, and authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to continue the
         disposition process.


         Submitted by:                                      Approved by: _

                                                             (
         7lcA~
         Erin Castleberry
         Administrative Analyst
                                                            Je
                                                            Chi          opment Officer

         ATTACHMENT:          Resolution Declaring Exempt Surplus Real Property for APN 075-0064-
                              005




                                      Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                        P21
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
  l            I    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700


lfi+;•
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                    RESOLUTION NO. 2025-XXX

       A RESOLUTION DECLARING EXEMPT SURPLUS REAL PROPERTY FOR
                            APN 075-0064-005
            WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political subdivision
    of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant to the State
  . constitution and laws; and
          WHEREAS, the District is the owner of a 0.18-acre parcel of real property located at 9116
  Vancouver Drive in Sacramento, California (APN 075-0064-005) ("Property"), previously known
  as Station 64; and
          WHEREAS, the District adopted Resolution 2025-021 on May 8, 2025, which declared the
   property as surplus real property; and
          WHEREAS, the District has determined that the Property meets the criteria for exempt
  surplus property in accordance with Government Code Section 54221, based on the fol[owing
  findings:
      1. The Property is less than one-half acre in area and is not contiguous to land owned by a
          state or local agency that is used for open-space or low- and moderate-income housing
          purposes (Government Code Section 54221 (f)(1 )(B)); and
      2. The Property is not located in a coastal zone; adjacent to a historical unit of the State
          Parks System; listed on, or determined by the State Office of Historic Preservation to be
          eligible for, the National Register of Historic Places; or within the Lake Tahoe region
          (Government Code Section 54221 (f)(2)).
          THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, a public
   entity established under .the laws of the State of California, does hereby declare the
   aforementioned Property as exempt surplus real property based on the findings outlined herein
   and authorize the Fire Chief or his designee as its Authorized Agent(s) to continue the disposition
   process for the aforementioned Property.
         PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 10th day of July, 2025. I, MARNI
   RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT HEREBY
   CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting of the
   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:
  AYES:
  NOES:
  ABSENT:
  ABSTAIN:

                                          SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                          By: - - -- - - -- - - - - - -
                                             President, Board of Directors
  ATTEST:


  Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
  Clerk of the Board
                                Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                          P22
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   J.         I
                         10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

lfiu,~
ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief

        DATE:           July 10, 2025
        TO:             Board of Directors
        SUBJECT:        Contract Award - Fire Station 67 Station Alerting System

                                                     TOPIC
        Request to approve an exception to a formal solicitation process for the Fire Station 67 station
        alerting system installation and approve the contract award to WestNet, LLC.

                                                  BACKGROUND
        The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's (District) FY2022/23 Capital Improvement Plan,
        adopted by the Board of Directors (Board) on June 9, 2022, authorized the implementation of
        the Fire Station 67 project in the Vineyard area. Planning and design activities began in late
        2022, and the District anticipates soliciting bids for the construction of Fire Station 67 later this
        summer.

                                                  DISCUSSION
        The District has standardized the First-In Station Alerting System in all its fire stations, which is
        a proprietary system available exclusively from WestNet, LLC. Utilizing an alternative system
        that deviates from the District's standard is not operationally feasible. For this reason, staff has
        submitted a Request for Exception to Formal Solicitation, in accordance with the District's
        Purchasing and Contracting Policy and intends to contract the station alerting system
        installation to WestNet, LLC. The public works agreement the District is negotiating with the
        vendor is consistent with previously awarded contracts for similar scope of work.

                                              FISCAL IMPACT
        The value of the proposed contract award is $152,040, which has already been accounted for in
        the total approved project cost.

                                           RECOMMENDATION
        Staff recommends the Board adopt a resolution to approve the Request for Exception to Formal
        Solicitation and award a contract to WestNet, LLC for the Fire Station 67 Station Alerting
        System.

        Submitted by:                                         Approved by: --
                                                                                     --✓
        71;b~ .
        Erin Castieberry
                                                               (




                                                              Jeff
                                                                   . -...:
                                                                             •   -

                                                                                           '
                                                                                               •




        Administrative Analyst                                Chi                    pment Officer

        ATTACHMENTS:

        Attachment 1: Request for Exception to Formal Solicitation
        Attachment 2: Resolution Approving a Contract Award for the Fire Station 67 Station Alerting
                      System



                                        Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                                   P23
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        _HfADQUARTERS: 10545 Annstrong Ave.• Mather, CA, 95655. Phone (916) 859-4300. Fax (916) 859-3702
                         Weh51te: www.metroflre,ca.gov
                         PURCHASING: 3012 <:iold Canal Dr,• Rancho Cordova, CA, 95670 • Phone (916)859-4360 •• fax (916) 859-3729



                    REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS
                                            and
                                   DISCLOSURE STATEMENT

Purchas.e Description: Fire Station 67 Station Alerting System Installation

Proposed Vendor:         WeSt Net , LLC
     Chec;:k One:       lt/lException to Formal ~olicitation Process                               Osole Source
     (An exception w the formal solicitation process I~ when there are similar products/services available from other
                                                                        a
     sources, but you have a strong Justification to purchase specific product/service from the proposed vendor. A st>le-
     source Is when there Is no alternative product/service available.)

Estimated Total Cost: $ 152,040


This form must accompany the vendor quote document whenever an exception to the formal solicitation
process is requested. State and local laws subject the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District to competitive
bidding rules. Requests for goods and/or services from a specific vendor or that are limited to a specific
brand, where substitutes to the recommended vendor or brand are not in the best interest of the
District, must be accompanied by a written justification explaining the circumstances that make alternatives
unacceptable. l'he employee signing the justification must disclose in writing whether or not they have a
potential or actual conflict of interest. Metro Fire employees who have a business relationship ~ith or .
financial or personal interest in the recommended vendor must disclose the conflict of interest. Any
employee with an actual or potential conflict of interest may not participate in the purchase decision.

The Purchasing Agent and branch Deputy Chief will determine whether the justification is appropriate.
Requests for exceptions to the formal soHcitation process mu.st be supported by factual statements that will
pass an audit and must be submitted to the Board of Directors for final review and approval.



INSTRUCTIONS
Complete the above fields and all the following pages and sign in the appropriate places. If needed, attach all
supporting do<;umentation. Once completed, submit to Purchasing for review. This form shall be attached to
your requisition after you have received approval from the Board of Directors.




                                                                                                                                    Page 1 of4
                                                                                                                                          P24
              REQUEST FOR E}(CEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT




1. Please check ~II applicable categories below and provide additional information where indicated.

 D a. The requested product is an integral repairpart or accessory compatible with existing equipment.
               Existing Equipment:

               Manufacturer/Model Number:

               Age:

               Current Estimated Value:


 □ b. The requested product has unique de~ign/performance specifications or quality requirements that
      are not available in comparable products,


 ~     t.   I have standardized the requested product, and the use of another brand/model would require
            considerable time and funding to evaluate,
 □ d. The requested product is one hi which I (and/or my staff) have specialized training and/or extensive
            expertise. Retraining would incur substantial cost in time and/or funding.

 D e. The requested product is used or demonstration equipment available at a lower-than-new cost.
 D f. Repair/Maintenance service is available only from the manufacturer or design_ated service
            representative.

 D g. Upgrade to or enhancement of existing software is available only from the manufacturer.
 D h. Service proposed by vendor is unique, therefore, competitive bids are not available or applicable.
 D i. Other factors
2. Provide a detailed explanation and pertinent documentation for each category checked in Section 1 above.
   Attach additional sheets if necessary:
    The District has standardized the WestNet First-In station alerting system District-wide, so the
    proposed contract with WestNet, LLC is necessary in order to ensure that Station 67 Is
    equipped with a system that is functional and compatible with out existing District-wide alerting
    system.




                                                                                                      Page 2~ff5
                REQUEST FOR E}CCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT

3. Was an ~valuation of other equipment, products, or services p~rformed?            Oves
    If yes, please provide all supporting documentation.

4. List below the name of each individual who was involved in the evaluation, if conducted, and/or in making
   the recommendation to procure this product or service. Attach additional information if necessary. Each
   Individual must submit a completed and signed Disclosure Statement (attached).
        1. Erin Castleberry                          2.

        3.                                           4.




 I certify that the above information Is accurate to the best of my knowledge, and a slgne_d copy of this
 document will be kept on file and av1;1ilable for audit In my departmeflt,

                                                               Chief D~velopment Officer
                                      Signature                    Budget Officer Title

                      Jeff Frye                                    7/2/25
                                    Printed Name                           Date

                                                    Approval

I hereby certify that I fully agree with and support this request to waive the District'sformal solicitation
process requirements for the purchase listed in the enclosed documentation.


          Adam Mikl)ell (Jul 2, 2Q2~ 16:23 f'DT)
                                                               Adam Mitchell 7/2/25
                Branch Deputy Chief Signature                     Printed Name        I     Date
             REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT



                                       DISCLOSURE STATEMENT TO ACCOMPANY
                               REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO FORMAL SOLICITATION PROCESS


When submitting a request for an exception to the formal solicita_  t ion process, each individual Involved in
evaluating ancJ/or in making a recommendation to purchase the proposed good/service m~st complete, sign,
and submit this Disclosure Statement. Fili_ng an annual statement of economic interest does not exempt
an employee from this requirement. Attach additional information if necessary.

Purchase Description: Fire Station 67 Station Alerting System Installation

Proposed Vendor:           WestNeSt, LLC

   1.   Please list any income or gifts you received from this vendor during the past 12 months:

        None
   2. Plea.se list any financial interests (stocks, shares, investments, etc.) you have in this vendor:
        None

   3, Do you have any other type of business Qr personal relationship with this vendor?

        None
   4. To the best of your knowledge, does any member of your departmental staff have a business or
      personal relationship with this vendor?
        None

    5. Do you or any of your near relatives _have any financial or personal interest in this vendor? If yes,
        please describe.
         None

    6. Please provide any additional information you believe should be disclosed at this time:

         None

I certify that the above Information is accurate to the best of my knowledge, and a signed copy of this
document will be kept on file and available for audit in my department.
           ~Zt3h~                                                    AdminlSlmtive Analyst/Project MOoago,

                       ~                                                              Title

        Erin Castleberry                                                        7/2/25
                    Printed Name                                                       Date




                                                                                                             Page4   ~ft,
                                                                  15542 Chemical Lane
                       WES1NE1                                Huntington Beach, CA 92649
                                                         Phone: 714-548-3500 Fax: 714-901 -5610
                                                                 www. FirstlnAlerting.com

Quote: Sacramento Metro Vineyard Springs Fire Station First-In Alerting
Smart Station System Revised 3
To: Sacramento M etropolitan Fire Department                                 From: Rick Sanft

Sacramento Metropolitan Fire Department

4201 El Centro Road

10545 Armstrong Avenue, Suite 200

Sacramento, CA 95834

Contact:


Summary

Total Amount:                   $152,039.86                                  Quote ID:                     Q-09989-F6F6 Revision: 3

Shipping Method:                Ground                                       Date:                         7/3/2025

Payment Terms:                  Net 30                                       Effective To:                 8/29/2025

Description:                    l11is quote is for Sacramento Metro Vineyard Springs Fire Station First-I n Alerting Smart Station System Revised 3
                                including installation and one year of technical support.
Clarifying Comments:            This quote Is based upon Installation occurring In (4) four trips. If the station is not ready and additional trips are
                                 required, the customer agrees to pay additional fees. The customer is responsible for all network connectivity
                                 between dispatch and station, as well as the CAD interface if network activation is desired. The customer is
                                 responsible for having the radio, network equipment, and power within 6 feet of the Master Control Unit. The quote
                                 does not include conduit of more than twenty feet, if required. The customer Is to provide VPN access to Westnet
                                 for remote adjustments and support.

                                The quote includes prevailing wage rates. The Customer Is responsible for the difference in sales and use tax if
                                applicable. If tax-exempt, please email the tax-exempt form to accounting@westnet-inc.com. Payment terms are
                                net 30 with payment milestones. The quote does not include permits or bonds.

                                 Quote revised 2/17/25 to remove 1- Alerting Strobe Light Fixture, 1- Strobe Back Box, 4- High Powered Amps with
                                 Dual Speakers, 1- Satellight Controller. Also added 1- Satellight, 2- High Powered Amps with Single Speaker, 1-
                                 High Power Audio Module with Dual - 8" Omnidirectional Speaker, 1- High Power Audio Module with Single - 8"
                                 Omnidirectional Speaker. Quote also now includes 4 trips to facilitate a smoother process. 1 trip to explore the site
                                 and make sure back box locations and conduit pathways are all a coordinated. A second trip to pull all the wiring. A
                                 third trip to mount all devices and do testing. A fourth and final trip for go live and sign off of system.
                                 Quote revised 6/30/25 to add bond.
                                 Quote revised 7/3/25 to update tax rate.



 Shipping Information
 Ship To:                                                                    Bill To:


 Details
 Product ID                Product                                                                                 QTY         Price        Sub Total

 2U-SLT-SH-KIT             2U Slotted Shelf - Kit                                                                  2.00       $85.00           $170.00

 DLSP                      MCU Data Line Surge Protector                                                           1.00     $199.00            $199.00

 DL-SlROBE-BB              Dorm Light/ Strobe Light Back Box                                                       3.00       $34.50           $103.50

 FIAP-CORE-015             First-I n Alerting Platform 1 Station License Package                                   1.00 $1,385.00           $1,385.00

 FIN-AUX-LOl               First-I n MCU Auxiliary Module Lite                                                     1.00     $635.00            $635.00

 FIN-DIS-INT               Dispatch Integration                                                                    1.00 $1,850.00           $1,850.00

 FI N-Eth-TlO              Ethernet Data Activated First-I n Type 10 MCU                                           1.00 $12,850.00         $12,850.00
     ......   --- -·
[~~3/ 2025 '8:54:13 AM
                       -r---
                               -                        Prepared by : Rick Sanft                                                          Page 1 of 3J




                                                                                                                                                          P28
Product ID              Product                                                                                 QTY        Price      Sub Total

FINISO4P                Radio Isolation Unit - Four Channel                                                     1.00     $831.00        $831.00
FIS-EP-40               First-In Alerting Endpoint w/ 40" Monitor                                               1.00 $2,447.20        $2,447.20
FRMKit-Dual             MCU and Radio Rack Mount Kit                                                            1.00     $193.95        $193.95
HPA-200                 High Power Paging Audio Module (includes one speaker)                                   3.00 $1,875.00        $5,625.00
HPA-200-OMNI-800        High Power Audio Module with 1 - 8" White Omnidirectional Speaker and Hanging           1.00 $1,150.00        $1,150.00
                        Kit
HPA-200-OMNI-800D       High Power Audio Module with 2 - 8" White Omnidirectional Speaker and Hanging           1.00    $1,750.00     $1,750.00
                        Kit
RK-WM-lU                Wire Management - 1 Unit - Kit                                                          2.00      $65.00        $130.00
SCR26-24VC5             Control Remote (each controls up to 8 functions)                                        1.00 $1,175.95         $1,175.95
SDB51                   Doorbell Button                                                                          1.00    $225.00        $225.00
SDRM38V-FM              Dorm Remote - Flush Mount Kit also required                                             8.00     $94S.00       $7,560.00
SDRMKIT-TBD             Dorm Remote Mounting Kit - TBD                                                          8.00     $310.00       $2,480.00
5PC28-HS-1K2PS          Power Module w/ Hub & Spoke Controller, UPS & Dual Power Supplies (Black)                1.00 $2,255.99        $2,255.99
SPC28-HSL-1K1PS         Power Module w/ Dual Mode, UPS & Single Power Supply                                     1.00 $1,789.00        $1,789.00
SS-AST-LF               Alerting Strobe Light Fixture                                                           3.00     $225.00        $675.00

SSAT                    Satelllght (driven off Satelllght Controller)                                           11.00    $295.00       $3,245.00
SSATKIT-TBD             Satellight Mounting Kit - TBD                                                           23.00      $48.00      $1,104.00
SSAT-M                  Satelllght Controller                                                                   12.00    $599.98       $7,199.76

SSETS                    Emergency Button                                                                        2.00     $225.00       $450.00
SS-SAIU-10-lRB          Appliance and Systems Interface Unit (Comes with 1 Reset Button)                         1.00 $1,925.00        $1,925.00
SS-SLA-4L               Alerting Strobe Light Adaptor                                                            1.00      $95.00         $95.00
SS-TIM-01               Telephone Interface Module                                                               1.00 $1,199.95        $1,199.95
SVC-LIFT-FEE             Lift: Service Fee                                                                       1.00 $1,500.00        $1,500.00
                                                                                    Equipment Total                                   $62,199.30
N OTES:
   1.     In the event that taxes, other than sales tax apply to the purchase       Install Supplies                                   $2,345.00
          of this equipment, said taxes will be paid by the customer.
                                                                                    Total Tax (7.750 %)                                $5,002.18
   2.     Quote is based on a properly working and installed CAD, radio
          system(s), station radio(s) and does·riot include costs for repair or     Shipping and Handling                              $2,332.47
          modifications of the CAD, radio system(s), or station radio(s).
                                                                                    Station Equipment Install                         $64,500.00
   3.     Any equipment drawings included with this quote are for quoti ng
          purposes only and are not to be used as working drawings unless           FiAP Install, Commissioning, and Testing             $370.00
          such drawings are labeled "Installation Drawings". See attached
          Limited Warranty.                                                         FIAP Training                                        $740.00

                                                                                    One Year Toll Free Technical Support               $6,633.91

                                                                                    Project Coordination                               $2,220.00

                                                                                    Permitting and Bonding                             $4,447.00

                                                                                    Special Engineering Services                       $1,250.00

                                                                                    Total Amount                                    $ 152,039.86




                  0
IY/3/2025 8:54: 13 AM                                   Prepared by : Rici< Sanft                                                    Page 2 of 31




                                                                                                                                                    P29
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
  l            I    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700


~ .;~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                     RESOLUTION NO. 2025-XXX

       A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
       APPROVING A CONTRACT AWARD FOR THE FIRE STATION 67 STATION
                            ALERTING SYSTEM

          WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political subdivision
  of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant to the State
  constitution and laws; and
           WHEREAS, the District authorized the implementation of the Fire Station 67 construction
   project ("Project") through the adoption of the FY 2022/23 Capital Improvement Plan on June 9,
   2022; and
            WHEREAS, the District desires to award a contract to WestNet, LLC for the installation of
   the fire station alerting system at future Fire Station 67, in consideration of a Request for Exception
   to Formal Solicitation and in accordance with the District's Purchasing and Contracting Policy.
         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the Sacramento
   Metropolitan Fire District, does hereby:
       1. Approve a Request for Exception to Formal Solicitation for the Fire Station 67 Station
          Alerting System and award the contract to WestNet, LLC.
       2. Authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to negotiate, execute, and administer a Public
          Works Project Agreement materially similar to the attached agreement.
           PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 10111 day of July, 2025. I, MARNI
   RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
   HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting
   of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

   AYES:
   NOES:
   ABSENT:
   ABSTAIN:

                                          SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                          By: - -- - -- - - - - - -- - -
                                              President, Board of Directors

   ATTEST:


   Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
   Clerk of the Board

   Attachment: Public Works Project Agreement
                                 Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                             P30
                                   SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                      PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT AGREEMENT

This Agreement, dated as of July 11, 2025, is by and between the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("DISTRICT"),
and WestNet, LLC ("CONTRACTOR"), hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Parties". This Agreement will be
effective upon final execution by the Parties.

                                                      RECITALS

WHEREAS, the DISTRICT requires the installation of a fire station alerting system at its future Fire Station 67 located
at 8101 Bradshaw Road, Sacramento, CA 95829 ("Project"); and

WHEREAS, the DISTRICT;s Board of Directors has approved a contract award to the CONTRACTOR to complete the
PROJECT; and

WHEREAS, the CONTRACTOR is professionally qualified and eligible to complete the work of the Project and agrees
to complete such work in accordance with the Contract Documents, including the terms and conditions set forth
herein.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follow;

1.        HEADINGS
          Headings herein are for convenience of reference only and shall in no way affect interpretation of this
          Agreement.

2.        EXHIBITS
          Exhibits A, B, C, D, and E are attached hereto and included by reference.

3.        CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
          This Agreement consists of the following documents ("Contract Documents"), all of which are incorporat ed
          herein and made a part of this Agreement as if set forth in full. In the event of a conflict between or among
          the Contract Documents, precedence will be in the following order:
               a) This Agreement, any amendments hereto, and any change orders signed by authorized
                   representatives of the DISTRICT and t__he CONTRACTOR
               b) Exhibit A: Scope of Work
               c) Contract Drawings and Project Manual provided by the DISTRICT

4.        INTERPRETATION OF CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
          Any questions concerning intent or meaning of any provision of the Contract Documents must be submitted
          to the DISTRICT for issuance of an interpretation and/or decision by the DISTRICT, in accordance with the
          requirements of the Contract Documents. Interpretations or decisions by any other method concerning the
          Contract Documents will not be binding on the DISTRICT. The decision of the DISTRICT shall be final.

5.        SCOPE OF WORK
          The CONTRACTOR agrees to perform all services described in Exhibit A, in accordance with the Contract
          Time described in Section 6.0, for payment pursuant to Exhibit B, and in accordance with the terms and
          conditions of this Agreement.

          The CONTRACTOR shall furnish all equipment, tools, apparatus, facilities, materials, labor, and skill
          necessary to perform and complete, in a good and workmanlike manner, the Scope of Work in accordance
          with th e Contract Documents (as defined herein) and applicable law.                         -




                                                                                                          Page 1 of 27

                                                                                                                          P31
6.   CONTRACT TIME
     The CONTRACTOR must complete the Project in accordance with the Contract Documents within 390
     calendar days from the date a Notice to Proceed is issued to the CONTRACTOR ("Contract Time"), and in
     coordination with the DISTRICT's Project schedule. The CONTRACTOR represents to the DISTRICT that the
     Contract Time is reasonable for completing the Project and that the CONTRACTOR is able to complete the
     Project within the ContractTime. Remedies for failure to timely complete the Project shall be in accordance
     with the Contract Documents.

     No work shall commence until the Notice to Proceed has been issued. Further, the CONTRACTOR shall not,
     except by agreement or instructi on of t he DISTRICT in writing, commence operations on the Project site(s)
     or elsewhere prior to t he effective date of insurance required by this Agreement to be furnished by the
     CONTRACTOR. The dates of commencement and Final Completion of the Project shall not be changed by
     t he effective date of such insurance.

     The CONTRACTOR shall proceed expeditiously with adequate forces and shall achieve Final Completion of
     the Project within the Contract Time. If the DISTRICT determines and notifies the CONTRACTOR that the
     CONTRACTOR's progress is such that th e CONTRACTOR will not achieve Final Completion of the Proj ect
     within the Contract Time, the CONTRACTOR shall immediately and at no additional cost to the DISTRICT,
     take all measures necessary, including working such overtime, additional shifts, weekends, or holidays as
     may be required to ensure that the Project is fully completed within the Contract Time. Upon receipt of
     such notice from the DISTRICT, the CONTRACTOR shall immediately notify the DISTRICT of all measures to
     be taken to ensure Final Completion of the Project within the Contract Time. The CONTRACTOR shall
     reimburse the DISTRICT for any extra costs or expenses (including the reasonable value of any services
     provided by the DISTRICT's employees) incurred by the DISTRICT as the result of such measures.

     The terms and conditions of this Agreeme nt, which relate to indemnification and other related matters,
     shall survive the expiration of this Agreement.

7.   CONTRACT PRICE
     As full compensation in consideration of comp letion of the Project in accordance with the Contract
     Documents, and in consideration of the fulfilment of all of the CONTRACTOR's obligations under the
     Contract Documents, the DISTRICT wi ll pay to the CONTRACTOR in lawful money of the United States the
     total price of $152,040.

     For work performed in accordance with this Agreement, payments shall be made to the CONTRACTOR as
     provided in Exhibit B hereto.

8.   TAXES
     Payment of all applicable federal, state, and local taxes shall be the sole responsibil ity of the CONTRACTOR.

9.   INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR
     No relationship of employer and employee is created by this Agreement; it being understood and agreed
     that the CONTRACTOR is at all t imes an independent contractor, and can perform work for others. The
     CONTRACTOR is not the agent or employee of the DISTRICT in any capacity whatsoever and the DISTRICT
     shall not be liable in any manner for any acts or omissions by t he CONTRACTOR or for any obligations or
     liabilities incurred by the CONTRACTOR, its employees, or agents.

     Neither the CONTRACTOR, nor its agents or employees shall have any claim under this Agreement or
     otherwise, for seniority, vacation time, vacation pay, sick leave, personal time off, health insurance medical
     care, hospital care, retirement benefit s, social security, d isability, workers' compensation, or
     unemployment insurance benefits, civil service protection, or employee benefits of any kind.

     The CONTRACTOR shall be solely liable for and obligated to pay directly all applicable payroll taxes (including
     federal and state income taxes) or contributions for unemployment insurance or old age pensions or
     annuities which are imposed by any governmental entity in connection with the labor used or which are

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 27

                                                                                                                       P3 2
      measured by wages, salaries or other remuneration paid to its officers, agents or employees, and the
      CONTRACTOR agrees to indemnify and hold the DISTRICT harmless from any and all liability which the
      DISTRICT may incur because of the CONTRACTOR's failure to pay such amounts.

      In carrying out the work contemplated herein, the CONTRACTOR shall comply with all applicable federal
      and state workers' compensation and liability laws and regulations with respect to t he officers, agents
      and/or employees conducting and participating in the work; and agrees that such officers, agents, and/or
      employees will be considered as independent contractors and shall not be treated or considered in any way
      as officers, agents, and/or employees of the DISTRICT.

      The CONTRACTOR shall perform all services required pursuant to this Agreement in the manner and
      according to the standards observed by a competent practitioner of the profession in which the
      CONTRACTOR is engaged in the geographical area in which the CONTRACTOR practices its profession.

      Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the DISTRICT in its discretion determines that pursuant to state and
      federal law the CONTRACTOR is an employee for purposes of income tax withholding, DISTRICT may upon
      two (2) weeks' notice to the CONTRACTOR, withhold from payments otherwise due to the CONTRACTOR
      hereunder federa l and state income taxes and to pay said sums to the federal and state governments.

10.   CONFLICT OF INTEREST
      The CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not obtain any interest, direct or
      indirect, which would conflict in any manner with the performance of services required under this
      Agreement, including but not limited to any provision of services to any federal, state or lo·cal regulatory or
      other public agency wh ich has any interest adverse or potentially adverse to the DISTRICT, as determined
      in the reasonable judgment of the Board of Directors of the DISTRICT. Entering into this Agreement does
      not preclude the CONTRACTOR from working for others as long as the CONTRACTOR ensures that such work
      does not con~titute a conflict of interest.

11.   ELIGIBILITY
      CONTRACTOR certifies and acknowledges that it is subject to the provisions of California Labor Code
      Sections 1777.1 and 1777.7 regarding el_igibility to perform work on public works contracts. In accordance
      with California Public Contract Code Section 6109(a), contractors who are ineligible to perform work on
      public works projects pursuant to California Labor Code Sections 1777.1 or 1777.7 may neither bid on, be
      awarded or perform the Project. The CONTRACTOR shall hold harmless and indemnify the DISTRICT from
      and against any and all damages, costs, and liability arising from any violation of or provision relating to
      Public Contract Code Section 6109.

12.   INDEMNIFICATION
      The CONTRACTOR shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the DISTRICT, its officers, directors, officials,
      employees, consultants, and volunteers from and against losses (including without limitat ion the cost of
      repairing defective work and remedying the consequences of defective work) arising out of, resulting from,
      or relating to the following:
           a) The failure of the CONTRACTOR or its subcontractors to perform its obligations under this
                Agreement
           b)   The inaccuracy of any representation or warranty by the CONTRACTOR or its subcontractors given
                in accordance with or contained in the Contract Documents
           c)   Any claim of damage or loss by any subcontractor against the DISTRICT arising out of any alleged
                act or omission of the CONTRACTOR or any of its subcontractors, or anyone directly or indirectly
                employed by the CONTRACTOR or any of its subcontractors
           d)   Any claim of damage or loss resu lting from hazardous materials introduced, discharged, or
                disturbed by the CONTRACTOR or its subcontractors as requ ired in the Contract Documents

      The DISTRICT shall not be liable or responsible for any accidents, loss, injury (including death) or damages
      happening or accruing during t he term of the performance of the work herein referred to or in connection
      therewith, to persons and/or property, and the CONTRACTOR shall fu lly indemnify, defend and hold
      harmless the DISTRICT and protect the DISTRICT from and against the same as provided above. In addition

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 27

                                                                                                                        P3 3
      to the liability imposed by law upon the CONTRACTOR for damage or injury (including death) to persons or
      property by reason of the negligence of the CONTRACTOR, its officers, agents, employees/ or
      subcontractors, which liability is not impaired or otherwise affected hereby, the CONTRACTOR shall defend,
      indemnify, hold harmless, release. and forever discharge the DISTRICT, its officers, directors, officials,
      employees, consultants, and volunteers from and against and waive any and all responsibi lity of same for
      every expense, liability, or payment by reason of any damage or injury (including death) to persons or
      property suffered or claimed to have been suffered t hrough any negligent act, omission, or willful
      misconduct of the CONTRACTOR, its officers, agents, employees, or any of its subcontractors, or anyone
      directly or indirectly employed by either of them or from the condition of the premises or any part of the
      premises while in control of the CONTRACTOR, its officers, agents, employees, or any of its suboontractors
      or anyone directly or indirectly employed by either of them, arising out of the performance of the work
      called for by this Agreement. The CONTRACTOR agrees that this indemnity and hold harmless shall apply
      even in the event of negligence of the DISTRICT, its officers, directors, officials, employees, consultants, and
      volunteers regardless of whether such negligence is contributory to any claim, demand, loss, damage,
       injury, expense, and/or liability; but such indemnity and hold harmless shall not apply (i) in the event of the
      sole negligence of the DISTRICT, its officers, directors, officials, employees, consultants, and volunteers; or
       (ii) to the extent that the DISTRICT shall indemnify and hold harmless the CONTRACTOR for hazardous
       materials pursuant to the Contract Documents.

      In claims against any person or entity indemnified under this section that are made by an employee of the
      CONTRACTOR or any subcontractor, a person indirectly employed by the CONTRACTOR or any
      subcontractor, or anyone for whose acts the CONTRACTOR or any subcontractor may be liable, the
      indemnification obligation under this section shall not be limited by any limitation on amount or type of
      damages, compensation, or benefits payable by or for the CONTRACTOR or any subcontractor under
      workers' compensation acts, disability benefit acts, or other employee benefit acts.

      The indemnification obligations under this section shall not be limited by any assertion or finding that the
      person or entity indemnified is liable by reason of a non-delegable duty.

      The CONTRACTOR shall indemnify the DISTRICT from and against losses resulting from any claim of damage
      made by any separate contractor against the DISTRICT arising out of any alleged acts or omissions of the
      CONTRACTOR, any subcontractor, anyone directly or indirectly employed by either of them, or anyone for
      whose acts either of them may be liable.

      The CONTRACTOR shall indemnify separate contractors from and against losses arising out of the negligent
      acts, omissions, or willful misconduct of the CONTRACTOR, any subcontractor, anyone directly or indirectly
      employed by either of them, or anyone for whose acts either of them may be liable.

      This DISTRICT shall provide to the CONTRACTOR reasonably, timely notification of the receipt of any third
      party claim relating to this Agreement.

      These indemnity provisions shall survive any termination of the Agreement and/or the final performance
      of the Agreement by the CONTRACTOR.

13.    LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
       Under no circumstances will the CONTRACTOR be entitled to consequential damages for any loss of profit
       or damage to reputation. Under no circumstances will the CONTRACTOR be entitled to limit special or
       consequential damages claimed by the DISTRICT. The DISTRICT shall have all remedies available under
       California law in the event of breach of this Agreement by CONTRACTOR.

14.    NON-DISCRIMINATION
       No person will be excluded from participation in, be denied benefits of, be discriminated against in the
       admission or access to, or be discriminated against in treatment or employment in the DISTRICT's
       contracted programs or activities on the grounds of disability, age, race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
       or any other classification protected by federal or state constitutional or statutory law; nor will they be
       excluded from participation in, be denied benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination in the

                                                                                                          Page 4 of 27

                                                                                                                           P34
          performance of contracts with the DISTRICT or in the employment practices of the DISTRICT's contractors.
          Accordingly, the CONTRACTOR will, upon request, be required to show proof of such nondiscrimination and
          to post in conspicuous places, available to all employees and applicants, notices of nondiscrimination.

    15.   INSURANCE
          Within ten (10) days following the execution of this Agreement by the Parties, the CONTRACTOR shall
          furnish the DISTRICT with a certificate evidencing the insurance coverages outlined below. Copies of
          required endorsements must be attached to the provided certificates. It is the responsibility of the
          CONTRACTOR to notify its insurance advisor or insurance carrier(s) regarding coverage, limits, forms, and
          other insurance requirements specified below. All documents must be received and approved by the
          DISTRICT prior to the commencement of any services. Please note, the required coverages outlined below
          shall not limit the amount of coverage provided, but shall be the minimum req uirements acceptable to the
          DISTRICT.

          General Liability- shall be on an Occurrence basis, not a Claims Made basis. Minimum limits and structure
          shall be:                                                                                            '
               a) General Liability Aggregate:                       $2,000,000
               b) Products Comp/Op Aggregate:                        $2,000,000
               c) Personal & Adv Injury:                             $1,000,000
I
               d) Each Occurrence:                                   $1,000,000
               e) Fire Damage:                                       $100,000

          Automobile Liability
              a) Commercial Automobile Liability (for corporate/business owned vehicles, including non-owned
                 and hired vehicles) - $1,000,000 Combined Single Limit '-••
              b) Personal Lines Automobile Liability (for individually owr:ied vehicles) - $250,000 per person,
                 $500,000 each accident, $100,000 property damage

          Workers' Compensation and Employer's Liability
             a) Per Statute
             b) $1,000,000 per accident for each accident
             c) $1,000,000 for disease
             d) This policy shall be endorsed to waive the insurers' subrogation rights against the DISTRICT.

          Additional Insured
              a) The DISTRICT, its officers, directors, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be endorsed as
                  additional insureds as respects to liability arising out of activities performed by or on behalf of the
                  CONTRACTOR, products and completed operations of the CONTRACTOR, premises owned,
                  occupied or used by the CONTRACTOR, or automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by the
                  CONTRACTOR. The coverage shall contain no endorsed limitations on the scope of protection
                  afforded to the DISTRICT, its officers, directors, officials, employees, or volunteers.

          Insurance policies shall include a provision for the DISTRICT to be given thirty (30) days prior written notice
          of cancellation and thirty {30) days written notice of any material change(s) requested by the policy holder
          of said insurance policies. The CONTRACTOR shall furnish documentary evidence of such policies and the
          renewal or continuance of such insurances within ten (10) business days of any expiration date(s) thereof
          during the life of this Agreement.

          The DISTRICT will not be responsible for any deductible that may apply in any of the said insurance policies.

          The CONTRACTOR covenants and agrees that the DISTRICT's insurance requirements shall not be construed
          to and in no 'manner limit or restrict the liability of the CONTRACTOR.




                                                                                                            Page 5 of 27

                                                                                                                            P35
          Certificates of Insurance shall be sent to:
          Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          Attn: Purchasing Division
          3012 Gold Canal Drive
          Rancho Cordova, CA 95670
          {916) 859-4372
          OR purchasing@metrofire.ca.gov

      16. SURETY
          In accordance with applicable law, within ten (10) days following the execution of this Agreement by the
          Parties, the CONTRACTOR will be required to furnish to the DISTRICT a performance and payment bond in
          the amount equal to 100% of the contract value. Only bonds executed by admitted surety insurers
          satisfactory to the DISTRICT and that qualify as defined in the California Civil Procedures Code, Section
          995.120 shall be accepted. The surety must be a California-admitted surety and listed by the U.S. Treasury
          with a bonding capacity in excess of the contract value.

          The performance and payment bond shall be sent to:
          Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          Attn: Purchasing Division
          3012 Gold Canal Drive
          Rancho Cordova, CA 95670
          (916) 859-4372
          purchasing@metrofire.ca.gov

17.       REVIEW OF CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
          If the CONTRACTOR and/or its subcontractors perform any work involving any error, inconsistency, or
          omission in the Contract Documents, without giving notice in writing to the DISTRICT and obtaining the
          written consent of the DISTRICT, the CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the resultant losses, including,
          without limitation, the costs of correcting defective work.

18.       ITEMS NECESSARY FOR COMPLETION OF THE PROJECT
          Except as otherwise noted in the Contract Documents, the CONTRACTOR shall provide and pay for all labor,
          materials, equipment, permits, fees, licenses, facilities and services ne'cessary for the proper execution and
          timely completion of the Project in accordance with the Contract Documents.

19.       OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
          The Contract Documents and all copies thereof furnished to or provided by the CONTRACTOR are the
          property of.the DISTRICT and are not to be used by the CONTRACTOR on any other work.

20.       CONFIDENTIALITY
          The CONTRACTOR .agrees that any information, whether proprietary or not, made known or discovered
          during the performance of or in connection with this Agreement for the DISTRICT will be kept confidential
          and not be disclosed to any other person or entity except as required by law. The CONTRACTOR agrees to
          immediately notify the DISTRICT if it is requested to disclose to others any information made known or
          discovered during the performance of or in connection with this Agreement. These conflict of interest and
          future service provisions and limitations shall remain fully effective for five (5) years after the
          CONTRACTOR's termination of services to the DISTRICT hereunder.

21.       COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE CODE REQUIREMENTS
          The CONTRACTOR and its subcontractors engaged in the performance of the Project shall conform to the
          following specific rul es and regu lations, as well as all other laws, ordinances, rules and regulations that are
          applicable to the Project.
               a) All laws, statut es, the most recent building codes, ordinances, rules, regu lations, and lawful orders
                   of all public authorities having jurisdiction over the DISTRICT, the CONTRACTOR, any
                   subcontractor, the Project, the Project site(s), the Scope of Work, or the prosecution of the Scope
                   of Work;

                                                                                                              Page 6 of 27

                                                                                                                              P36
          b)    All requirements of any insurance company issuing insurance required hereunder;
          c)    The Federal Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) an d all other applicable code requirements
                relating to safety;
          d)    Applicable titles in the State of California Code of Regulations;
          e)    Applicable sections in the State of California Labor Code;
          f)    All applicable code requirements relating to nondiscrimination, payment of prevailing wages,
                payroll records, apprentices, and work day.

      Without limiting the foregoing, the CONTRACTOR shall comply with the provIsIons regarding
      nondiscrimination, payment of prevailing wages, payroll records, apprentices, and work day set forth in this
      Agreement.

      The CONTRACTOR shall comply with and give notices required by all applicable code requirements,
      including all environmental laws and all notice requirements under the State of California Safe Drinking
      Water and Enforcement Act of 1986 (State of California Health and Safety Code Section 25249.5 and
      applicable sections that follow). The CONTRACTOR shall promptly notify the DISTRICT in writing if the
      CONTRACTOR becomes aware during the performance of the work that the Contract Documents are at
      variance with applicable code requirements.

      If the CONTRACTOR performs work on the Project which it knows or should know is contrary to applicable
      code requirements, without prior written notice to the DISTRICT, the CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for
      such construction work and any resulting damages including, without limitation, the costs of correcting
      defective work.

22.   CONFORMITY WITH LAW AND SAFETY
      In performing services under this Agreement, the CONTRACTOR shall observe and comply with all applicable
      laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations of governmental agencies, including federal, state, municipal, and
      local governing bodies, having jurisdiction over the scope of services performed.

23.   SAFETY OF PERSONS AND PROPERTY
      In accordance with generally accepted construction practices and applicable law, the CONTRACTOR shall be
      solely and completely responsible for conditions of the Project site(s), and shall take adequate precautions
      and provide adequate protection against damage, injury, or loss to the following:
           a) Employees and subcontractors involved in the Project and other persons who may be affected
                thereby;
           b)   The Project in place and materials and equipment to be incorporated therein, whether in storage
                on or off the Project site(s), under care, custody, or control of the CONTRACTOR or subcontractors;
           c)   Other property at the Project site(s) and adjoining property.

      This requirement will apply continuously and not be limited to normal working hours. For purposes of
      California Labor Code Section 6400 and related provisions of law, the CONTRACTOR and the CONTRACTOR's
      privities and any other entities engaged in the performance of the Project shall be "employers" responsible
      for furnishing employment and a place of employment that is safe and healthful for the employees, if any,
      of such entities engaged in the performance of the Project. Neither the DISTRICT nor its officials, officers,
      employees, agents, volunteers or consultants will be "employers" pursuant to California Labor Code Section
      6400 and related provisions of law with respect to the CONTRACTOR, the CONTRACTOR's privities or other
      entities engaged in the performance of the Project.

      The CONTRACTOR shall erect and maintain, as required by existing conditions and performance of the
      Project, adequate safeguards for safety and protection, including providing adequate lighting and
      ventilation, posting danger signs and other warnings against hazards, promulgating safety regulations, and
      notifying owners and users of adjacent sites and utilities. The CONTRACTOR shall provide and maintain any
      other necessary systems or devices required to secure safety of life or property at the Project site(s) in
      accordance with accepted standards of the industry and applicable law. The CONTRACTOR shall maintain
      during all night hours sufficient lights to prevent accident or damage to life or property.


                                                                                                      Page 7 of 27

                                                                                                                      P37
      The CONTRACTOR shall not load or permit any part of the Project or the Project site(s) to be loaded so as
      to endanger the safety of persons or property. When use or storage of explosives, other hazardous
      materials, equipment, or unusual methods are necessary for execution of the Project, the CONTRACTOR
      shall exercise the utmost care and carry on such activities only under th e supervision of properly qualified
      personnel.

      In such instance where the CONTRACTOR's scope of work includes the abatement and removal of hazardous
      materials found anywhere on or within the Project site(s), the CONTRACTOR shall comply with all laws,
      including, without limitation, the requirements of the Environmental Protection Agency and all
      jurisdictional agencies and all laws relating to safety, health welfare, and protection of the environment, in
      removing, treating, encapsulating, passivating, and/or disposing of hazardous materials, including, but not
      limited to, removal, treatment, encapsulation, passivation, and/or disposal of the hazardous materials. If
      any notices to governmental authorities are required, the CONTRACTOR shall also give those notices at the
      appropriate times. The CONTRACTOR shall ensure abatement subcontractors and disposal sites are
      appropriately licensed and qualified. The CONTRACTOR's obligations under this section shall include signing
      (as the agent for the DISTRICT) any manifests required for the disposal of hazardous materials.

      The CONTRACTOR shall designate a responsible member of the CONTRACTOR's organization at the Project
      sit e(s) whose duty shall be the prevention of accidents. That person shall be the superi ntendent, unless
      otherwise designated by the CONTRACTOR in writing to the DISTRICT.

24.   USE OF DISTRICT PROPERTY
      The CONTRACTOR shall not use DISTRICT property (including equipment, instruments, and supplies) or
      personnel for any purpose other t han in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement.

25.   USE OF PROJECT SITE(S)
      The CONTRACTOR shall confine operations at the Project site(s) to areas permitted by law, ordinances,
      permits, and th e Contract Documents. The CONTRACTOR shall not unreasonably encumber the Project
      site(s) with materials or equipment. Personnel of the CONTRACTOR and subcontractors shall not occupy,
      live upon, or otherwise make use of the Project site(s) during any time that work is not being performed at
      the Project site(s), except as otherwise provided in the Contract Documents.

      Th e CONTRACTOR shall keep the Project site(s) and surrounding areas free from accumulations of waste
      material and rubbish generated by the CONTRACTOR and its subcontractors. The CO NTRACTOR shall
      remove all rubbish, tools, equipment, and surplus materials leaving the area "broom clean" upon
      completion of the Project. Trash and rubbish must be transported daily from the site and legally disposed
      of. Contaminated or dangerous mat erials must be removed and promptly disposed of if encountered. No
      materials·may be burned, buried, or otherwise disposed of on site. Tools, equipment, and site protections
      measured are to be removed upon Project completion.

26.   STAGING
      The CONTRACTOR shall coordinate the preparation of construction staging areas on-site for the Proj ect and
      the preparation of the site(s) for construction, including, but not limited to fencing, barricades, access
      parking, or other items reasonably necessary for efficient prosecution of the Project. The CONTRACTOR
      shall coordinate all required ut ility shut downs, road closures, traffic closures, and the like. The
      CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the cost of temporary power used during the prosecution of the
      Proj ect, including, but not limited to, the cost of installing such temporary wiring as may be required to
      bring power to the site. The CONTRACTOR shall also be responsible for t he cost of all temporary
      construction and facilities necessary for the Project site(s).

27.   RIGHT OF ACCESS
      The DISTRICT and its authorized representatives will at all reasonable t imes while such office facilities are
      located at the Project site(s) (in cluding, at a minimum, all times during which the work is performed), have
      access to any such site office faci lities used by the CONTRACTOR and/or its subcontractors. With respect to
      the right of access of the DISTRICT and its authorized representatives, neither the CONTRACTOR nor its
      subcontractors shall have a reasonable expectatio n of privacy pursuant to the Fourth Amendment to the

                                                                                                       Page 8 of 27

                                                                                                                       P38
      Unites States Constitution or other applicable law concerning such site office facilities used by the
      CONTRACTOR and/or its subcontractors. Without exception, any and all Project related materials located
      at such site office facilities will be deemed at all times to be DISTRICT property subject to inspection and
      copying by the DISTRICT and its authorized representatives at all reasonable times while such facilities are
      located at the Project site(s) (including, at a minimum, all times during which the work is performed). Any
      interference by the CONTRACTOR or its subcontractors with the DISTRICT's rights of access and/or
      ownership pursuant to this section will constitute a material breach of the Agreement subject to any and
      all remedies available pursuant to the Cont ract Documents and at law and equity.

28.   WORK HOURS
      The CONTRACTOR shall comply with any applicable noise ordinance and neither it nor its subcontractors
      shall undertake work on the Project site(s) other than at the times and sound level permitted by the noise
      ordinance.

29.   PARKING
      The CONTRACTOR shall organize its work in such a manner so as to minimize the impact of its operations
      on the surrounding community and on the operations of the DISTRICT. To the extent that the number of
      workers on the site(s) is likely to have an adverse impact on neighborhood parking, the CONTRACTOR shall
      develop a parking plan for those individuals working on the site(s) that is reasonably acceptable to the
      DISTRICT.

30.   PERSONNEL
      The CONTRACTOR shall at all times enforce strict discipline and good order among the CONTRACTOR's
      employees and may not employ on the Project any unfit person or anyone not skilled in the work assigned,
      or anyone incom petent or unfit for the duties of that person. When the DISTRICT determines that a
      CONTRACTOR's employee or subcontractor does not satisfy the requirements of this provision, upon noti ce
      from the DISTRICT, the CONTRACTOR shall ensure that employee performs no further work and is no longer
      present at the Project site. Any such employee shall not again be employed on t he Project without the
      DISTRICT's approval.

31.   SUBCONTRACTING
      By execution of this Agreement, the CONTRACTOR certifies that no subcontractor included on the list of
      proposed subcontractors included in Exhibit A is ineligible to perform work on public works projects
      pursuant t o California Labor Code Sections 1777.1 or 1777.7. In accordance with California Public Contract
      Code Section 6109(a), subcontractors who are ineligible to perform work on public works projects pursuant
      to California Labor Code Sections 1777.1 or 1777.7 may neither bid on, be awarded or perform as a
      subcontractor on the Project. In accordance with California Public Contract Code Section 6109(b), any
      contract on a public works project entered into between a contractor and a debarred subcontractor is void
      as a matter of law. The CONTRACTOR shall ensure that no debarred subcontractor receives any public
      money for performing the Project, and any public money that may have been paid to a debarred
      subcontractor for the Project is returned to the DISTRICT. The CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for
      payment of wages to workers of a debarred subcontractor who has been allowed to perform on the Project.

      Th e Agreement and the performance of the Proj ect are subject to the requirements of the Subletting and
      Subcontracting Fair Practices Act codified at California Public Contract Code Section 4100 and following. If
      the CONTRACTOR fails to specify a subcontractor or specifies more than one subcontractor for the same
      portion of the Project in excess of 0.5% of the Contract Value, the CONTRACTOR agrees that the
      CONTRACTOR is fully qualified to perform that portion of the Project with the CONTRACTOR's own forces,
      and that the CONTRACTOR will perform th at portion of the Project with the CONTRACTOR's own forces. If,
      after the execution of t his Agreement, the CONTRACTOR subcontracts, except as provided for in California
      Public Contract Code Sections 4107 or 4109, any such portion of the Project, the CONTRACTOR will be
      subject to the penalties set forth in California Public Contract Code Sections 4110 and 4111, including
      cancellation of the Agreement, assessment of a penalty of up to 10% of the amount of the subcontract, and
      disciplinary action by the Contractors State License Board.




                                                                                                      Page 9 of 27

                                                                                                                     P39
      Any portion of the Project performed for the CONTRACTOR by a first-tier subcontractor shall be pursuant
      to a written subcontract. Each such subcontract shall require the subcontractor, to the extent of the work
      to be performed by the subcontractor, to be bound to the CONTRACTOR by the terms of the Contract
      Documents, to assume toward the CONTRACTOR all the obligations and responsibilities which the
      CONTRACTOR assumes towards the DISTRICT by the Contract Documents, and to perform such portion of
      the Project in accordance with th e Contract Documents. E_ach such subcontract shall preserve and protect
      the rights of the DISTRICT under the Contract Documents, with respect to t he work to be performed by
      subcontractor, so that subcontracting thereof will not prejudice such rights. Nothing contained in the any
      subcontract shall create any contractual relationship between any subcontracto r and the DISTRICT. The
      CONTRACTOR shall also cause any first-tier subcontractor to incorporate the Co_n tract Documents in any
      lower-tier subcontracts as described herein.

      Th e CONTRACTOR is responsible for scheduling the work of subcontractors so as to avoid delay or injury to
      either work o r materials. The CONTRACTOR shall be solely responsible for any delay or additional costs
      incurred as a r esult of its failure to provide adequate or accurate information to a subcontractor that results
      in improper submittals and/or work, or time or other impacts.

32.   PAYMENT TO SUBCONTRACTORS
      Attention is directed to the provisions in Section 7108.5 of the Business and Professions Code concerning
      prompt payment to subcontractors. The CONTRACTOR shall return all monies withheld in retention from
      the subcontractor within thirty (30) days after receiving payment for work satisfactorily completed, even if
      the other contract work is not compl eted and has not been accepted in accordance with t he terms and
      conditions of this Agreement. This requirement shall not b_e construed to limit or impair any contractual,
      administrative, or judicial remedies otherwise available to the CONTRACTOR or subcontractor in the event
      of a dispute involving late payment or nonpayment by the CONTRACTOR or deficient subcontract
      performance or noncompliance by a subcont ractor.

33.   RIGHT TO REFUSE PERSONNEL
      The DISTRICT reserves the right to refuse, at its sole discretion, any subcontractors or any personnel
      provided by the CONTRACTOR or its subcontractors. The CONTRACTOR's staff and/or subcontractors may
      be subject to the DISTRICT's background an d drug testing processes at any time.

34.   PREVAILING WAGE
      In accordance with California Labor Code Section 1810, eight (8) hours of labor in performance of the
      Project shall constitute a legal day's work under the Agreement. In accordance with California Labor Code
      Section 1811, the time of service of any worker employed in performance of the Project is limited to eight
      (8) hours during any one (1) calendar day, and forty (40) hours during any one (1) calendar week, except in
      accordance with California Labor Code Section 1815, which provides th at work in excess of eight (8) hours
      during any one (1) calendar day and forty (40) hours during any one (1) calendar week is permitted upon
      compensation for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours during any one (1) calendar day and forty
      (40) hours during any one (1) calenda r week at not less than one-and-one-half times the basic rate of pay.

      Th e CONTRACTOR shall comply and shall ensure that all subcontractors, at any tier, comply with prevailing
      wage law pursuant to the State of California Labor Code, including but not limited to Section 1720 et seq.
      of the State of California Labor Code. Compliance with these sections is required by the Agreement. The
      work under the Agreement is subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the State of California
      Department of Industrial Relations (DIR).

      The DIR has ascertained the general prevailing per diem wage rates in the locality in which the work is to
      be performed for each craft, classification, or type of worker required to perform the work. The
      CONTRACTOR shall post a copy of the general prevailing per diem wage rates as well as job site notices as
      prescribed by regulation at the Project site(s). By this reference, such sched ule is made part of th e Contract
      Documents. The CONTRACTOR shall pay not less than the prevailing wage rates, as specified in t he schedule
      and any amendments thereto, to all workers employed by th e CONTRACTOR in the execution of the Project.
      The CONTRACTOR shall ca use all subcontracts, at any t ier, to include the provision that all subcontractors



                                                                                                        Page 10 of 27

                                                                                                                         P40
      shall pay not less than the prevailing rates to all workers employed by subcontractors in the execution of
      the Project.

      The CONTRACTOR shall forfeit to the DISTRICT, as a penalty, not more than $200 for each calendar day or
      portion thereof for each worker that is paid less than the prevailing rates as determined by the DIR for the
      work or craft in which the worker is employed for any portion of the work done by the CONTRACTOR or any
      subcontractor. The amount of this penalty shall be determined pursuant to applicable law. Such forfeiture
      amounts may be deducted from th~ contract value. The CONTRACTOR shall also pay to any worker who
      was paid less than the prevailing wage rate for the work or craft for which t he worker was employed for
      any portion of the work, for each day, or portion thereof, for which the worker was paid less than the
      specified prevailing per diem wage rate, an amount equal to the difference between the specified prevailing
      per diem wage rate and the amount which was paid to the worker. Review of any civi l wage and penalty
      assessment shall be made pursuant to section 1742 of the California Labor Code.

      If a subcontractor worker engaged in performance of the Project is not paid the general prevailing per diem
      wages by the subcontractor, the CONTRACTOR is not liable for any penalties therefore unless the
      CONTRACTOR had knowledge of that failure or unless the CONTRACTOR fails to comply with all of the
      following requirements:
            a) The contract executed between the CONTRACTOR and the subcontractor for the performance of
               part of the Proj ect must include a copy of the provisions of California Labor Code Sections 1771,
               177S, 1776, 1777.5, 1813, and 1815.
            b) The CONTRACTOR shall monitor payment of the specified general prevailing rate of per diem
               wages by the subcontractor by periodic review of the subcontractor's certified payroll records.
            c) Upon becoming aware of a subcontractor's failure to pay the specified prevailing rate of wages,
               the CONTRACTOR shall diligently take corrective action to halt or rectify the fa ilure, including, but
                not limited to, retaining sufficient funds due the subcontractor for perfqrmance of the Project.
            d) Prior to making final payment to the subcontractor, the CONTRACTOR shall obtain an affidavit
               signed under penalty of perjury from the subcontractor that the subcontractor has paid the
               specified general prevailing rate of per diem wages to employees engaged in the performance of
                the Project and any amounts due pursuant to California Labor Code Section 1813.

      In accordance with California Labor Code Section 1777.5, the CONTRACTOR, on behalf of the CONTRACTOR
      and any subcontractors engaged in performa nce of the Project, shall be responsible for ensuring
      compliance with California Labor Code Section 1777.5, governing employment and payment of apprentices
      on public works contracts.

      In case it becomes necessary for the CONTRACTOR or any subcontractor engaged in performance of the
      Project to employ on the work any person in a trade or occupation (except executive, supervisory,
      administrative, clerical, or other non-manual workers as such) for which no minimum wage rate has been
      determined by the DIR, the CONTRACTOR shall pay the minimum rate of wages specified therein for the
      classification which most nearly corresponds to work to be performed by that person. The minimum rate
      thus furnished will be applicable as a minimum for such trade or occupation from the tim e of t he initial
      employment of the person affected and during the continuance of such employment.

35.   CERTIFIED PAYROLL
      In accordance with California Labor Code, the CONTRACTOR and all subcontractors engaged in performance
      of the Project, shall keep accurate payroll records showing the name, address, social security number, work
      classification, straight time and overtime hours worked each day and week, and the actual per diem wages
      paid to ~ach journeyman, apprentice, worker, or other employee employed in performance of the Project.
      Each payroll record shall contain or be verified by a written declaration that it is made under penalty of
      perjury, stating that the information contained in t he payroll record is true and correct and that the
      employer has complied with the requirements of California Labor Code Sections 1771, 1811, and 1815 for
      any work performed by the employer' s employees on the public works project. The payroll records requ ired
      pursuant to California Labor Code Section 1776 shall be certifi ed an d shall be available for inspection at all
      reasonable hours at the principal office of the CONTRACTOR on the following basis:



                                                                                                       Page 11 of 27

                                                                                                                         P41
          a)   A certified copy of an employee's payroll record shall be made available for inspection or furnished
               to such employee or the employee's authorized representative on request;
          b)   A certified copy of all payroll records shall be made available for inspection upon request to the
               DISTRICT, th e State of California Division of Labor Standards Enforcement, and the Division of
               Apprenticeship Standards of the State of California Department of Industrial Relations;
          c)   A certified copy of all payroll records shall be made available upon request by the public for
               inspection or copies thereof made; provided, however, that the request by t he public shall be
               made to either the DISTRICT, the Division of Apprenticeship Standards, or the Division of Labor
               Standards Enforcement. The public shall not be given access to such records at the principal offices
               of the CONTRACTOR or subcontractors. Any copy of the records made available for inspection as
               copies and furnished upon request to the public or any public agency by the DISTRICT shall be
               marked or obliterated in such a manner as to prevent disclosure of an individual's name, address,
               and social security number. The name and address of the CONTRACTOR performing the work shall
               not be marked or obliterated.

          d)   Th e CONTRACTOR shall file a certified copy of the payroll records with the entity that requested
               the records within ten (10) days after receipt of a written request.

      The CONTRACTOR shall regularly submit electronic certified payroll records to t he Labor Commissioner
      using the DI R's eCPR online system, in accordance with monitoring and enforcement requirements, no less
      frequently t han mon_thly.

      In the event of noncompliance with the requirements of this section or with the State of California Labor
      Code Section 1776, the CONTRACTOR shall have ten (10) days in which to comply following receipt of notice
      specifying in what respects the CONTRACTOR must comply. Should noncompliance still be evident after the
      ten (10) day period, the CONTRACTOR shall forfeit to the DISTRICT, as a penalty, $100 for each day, or
      portion thereof, for each worker, until strict compliance is accomplished. Such forfeiture amounts may be
      deducted from the contract value.

36.   CHANGE ORDERS
      Change order requests for work that falls outside of the Scope of Work of this Agreement must be submitted
      in writing to the DISTRICT prior to the commencement of any work for which the change order applies. The
      DISTRICT reserves the right to reject any change order requests.

      All change order requests shall itemize all cost impacts of the proposed change and include a total price for
      the change order. All change orders shall identify any change to the Project schedule or milestone delivery
      date(s) as a result of the proposed change.

      Pricing for change orders shall be calculated by adding the itemized direct cost that wou ld be added and
      credit for any work not performed under the change order and an allowance for indirect costs in accordance
      with this section. Itemization for direct costs for required labor must include the classifications of labor
      required, the total hours requ ired for each classification, the hourly rate for each classification and other
      labor related costs such as liability and workers compensation insurance, social security, retirement and
      unemployment insurance. All ot her direct cost impacts must be itemized as appropriate, including the cost
      of any rental equipment, required materials, or supplies.

      Indirect costs for a subcontractor added under a change order if t he subcontractor performed the work
      may not exceed an allowance of fifteen (15) percent of the total subcontractor direct costs added under
      the change order. Indirect costs for the CONTRACTOR added under a change order if a subcontractor
      performs the work shall not exceed seven (7) percent of th e sum of the subcontractor's direct costs and
      indirect costs.

      If the CONTRACTOR performs the change order work, the indirect costs for the CONTRACTOR added under
      change order may not exceed an allowance of fifteen (15) percent of the CONTRACTOR'S total direct costs
      added under the change order. Such indirect cost allowances cover CONTRACTOR and subcontractor
      overhead and profit under the change order, and include the cost of insurance in addition to that requi red

                                                                                                      Page 12 of 27

                                                                                                                       P42
                                                                                               .,


      pursuant herein, bond premiums, superintendent labor, clerical labor, home office expenses, worksite
      office expenses, and utility costs under the change order. Such costs may not be itemized as direct costs
      under a change order. Indirect costs deducted under a change order will be calcu lated in exactly the same
      way as indirect costs added under a change order, except indirect costs deducted under a change order
      shall be calculated as an amount equal to three (3) percent of the total of combined CONTRACTOR and
      subcontractor direct costs deducted under the change order.

      The CONTRACTOR shall be solely responsible for any and all losses, costs, or liabilities of any kind incurred
      by the CONTRACTOR, any subcontractor engaged in the performance of the Project, any party supplying
      materials or equipment for the Project, or any third party that are incurred as a result of a proposed change
      order prior to the issuance of an approved change order executed by the DISTRICT in writing in accordance
      with this section.

      The DISTRICT reserves the right to direct the prosecution of change order work while pricing is being
      negotiated and prior to the formal execution of the approved change order. In this instance, the DISTRICT
      shall provide such direction to the CONTRACTOR in writing.

37.   DELAY
      The CONTRACTOR will not be held responsible for delays in performance of the Project caused by delay
      beyond the control of both the DISTRICT and the CONTRACTOR, such as by strikes, lockouts, or labor
      disturbances that are not within the control of the CONTRACTOR to resolve. This provision will not apply
      where the delay would not have occurred but for a previous CONTRACTOR caused delay in the prosecution
      of the Project.

      The DISTRICT will not be liable to the CONTRACTOR, any subcontractor or other entity engaged in the
      performance of the Project, any supplier, or any other person or organization, or to any surety or employee
      or agent of any of them, for damages arising out of or resulting from delays beyond the control of the
      DISTRICT and the CONTRACTOR including but not limited to fires, floods, epidemics, abnormal weather
      conditions, earthquakes and acts of God or acts or neglect by utility owners or other contractors performing
      other ,work. An extension of the Contract Time in an amount equal to the time loss due t o such delay(s) will
      be the Contractor's sole and exclusive remedy for such delay(s).

      The CONTRACTOR shall not be entitled to additional compensation for extended field or home office
      overhead, field supervision, costs of capital, interest, escalation charges, acceleration costs or other impacts
      for any delays to the extent such delays are caused by the failure of the CONTRACTOR or any subcontractor
      or other entity engaged in performance of the Project to perform the work in accordance with the Contract
      Documents.

      The CONTRACTOR will not be entitled to damages for delay to the Project caused by the following, which
      the DISTRICT and the CONTRACTOR agree will be deemed for purposes of California Public Contract Code
      Section 7102 either not caused by the DISTRICT, and/or within the contemplation of the DISTRICT and the
      CONTRACTOR, and/or reasonable under the circumstances:
          a) Exercise of the DISTRICT's right to sequence the Project in a manner that would avoid disruption
               to the DISTRICT and other contractors based on: the failure of the CONTRACTOR or any
               subcontractor or other entity engaged in the performance of the Project to perform the work in
               accordance with the Contract Documents, enforcement by the DISTRICT or any other
               governmental agency of competent jurisdiction of any government act or regulation, or
               enforcement by the DISTRICT of any provisions of the Agreement.

           b)   Requests for clarification or information concerning the Contract Documents or proposed change
                orders or modifications to the Contract Documents, including extensive and/or numerous such
                requests for clarification or information or proposed change orders or modifications, provided
                such clarifications or information or proposed change orders or _modifications are processed by
                the DISTRICT or its representatives in a reasonable time in accordance with the Contract
                Documents.



                                                                                                       Page 13 of 27

                                                                                                                         P43
38.   ADJUSTMENTS TO CONTRACT TIME FOR DELAY
      Either the DISTRICT or the CONTRACTOR may propose a change in the Contract Time for extensive and
      unreasonable delays that are purported to be caused by the DISTRICT and/or its privities. Such proposed
      changes in the Contract Time will constitute change order proposals subject to the terms and conditions in
      this Agreement. In accordance with the change order procedures, the DISTRICT and the CONTRACTOR may
      agree upon pricing for the cost impacts, if any, resulting from such,delays. If such pricing is in anticipation
      of cost impacts that may, but have not yet occurred, the DISTRICT will be obligated to pay the CONTRACTOR
      for such anticipated impacts in accordance with the Agreement and any applicable, approved change orders
      only to the extent the CONTRACTOR actually incurs the anticipated cost impacts. Notwithstanding anything
      to the contrary in the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the DISTRICT and the CONTRACTOR may
      agree to a daily rate or cap or lump sum that will apply to the cost impacts, if any, resulting from delay
      purportedly caused by the DISTRICT and/or its privities subject to this provision. However, if such daily rate
      or cap or lump sum is in anticipation of cost impacts that have not yet occurred, the DISTRICT will be
      obligated to pay such daily rate or cap or lump sum only to the extent the CONTRACTOR actually incurs such
      cost impacts.

      Extensions of the Contract Time will not be allowed for weather conditions that are consistent with the
      anticipated average number of rain days in the Sacramento area, established as follows (where measurable
      precipitation is equal to or greater than 0.1" in a 24-hour period):
               January                   . 7.5 days                   July            0.0 days
               February                     9.0 days                   August         0.0 days
               March                        6.0 days                   September      0.0 days
               April                        4.5 days                   October        2.0 days
               May                          3.0 days                   November       5.5 days
               Juhe                         0.5 days                   December       7.0 days

      Extensions of the Contract Time for delays due to adverse weather will be allowed only if the number of
      rain days (greater than 0.1" in a 24-hour period) for a consecutive 3-month period exceeds the respective
      3-month average total specified above and the CONTRACTOR can demonstrate to the DISTRICT's
      reasonable satisfaction that such adverse weather caused actual delay in the timely completion of the
      Project. No extensions of the ContractTime will be granted for rain days in addition to those specified herein
      that do not or would not, themselves, result in failure to complete the Project in accordance with the Project
      schedule. An extension of the Contract Time in an amount equal to the time loss due to rain days wi ll be
      the CONTRACTOR's sole and exclusive remedy for such delay(s).

      Whenever the CONTRACTOR claims a delay for which the Contract Time may be extended, the
      CONTRACTOR shall request an extension of time within seven (7) calendar days of the start of the delay.
      The request must be in writing and shall include a Time Impact Analysis (TIA) that describes in detail t he
      cause for the delay, impact of the delay on the milestone durations, and, if possible, the foreseeabl e extent
      of the delay. Failure of the CONTRACTOR to submit such a request with the specified time frame shall
      constitute a waiver by the CONTRACTOR of any request for extension, and no extension shall be granted as
      a consequence of such delay.

39.   SUSPENSION BY DISTRICT FOR CONVENIENCE
      The DISTRICT may, at any time and from time to time, without cause, order the CONTRACTOR, in writing,
      to suspend, delay, or interrupt the Project in whole or in part for such period of time, up to ninety (90) days,
      as the DISTRICT may determine, with such period of suspension to be computed from the date of delivery
      of the written order. Such order shall be specifically identified as a "Suspension Order" under this section.
      The Project may be stopped for such further period as the Parties may agree. Upon receipt of a Suspension
      Order, the CONTRACTOR shall, at the DISTRICT's expense, comply with its t erms and take all reasonable
      steps to minimize costs allocable to the Project covered by the Suspension Order during the period of
      stoppage. Within ninety (90) days after the issuance of the Suspension Order, or such extension to that
      period as is agreed upon by the CONTRACTOR and the DISTRICT, th e DISTRICT shall either cancel the
      Suspension Order or delete the work covered by such Suspension Order by issuing a change order.




                                                                                                       Page 14 of 27

                                                                                                                         P44
      If a Suspension Order is ca nceled or expires, the CONTRACTOR shall continue with the Project. A change
      ord er will be issued to cover any adjustments of the contract value or the Contract Time necessarily caused
      by such suspension. Any Claim by the CONTRACTOR for an adjustment of the contract value or t he Contract
      Time shall be made within twenty-one (21) days after the end of the suspension. The CONTRACTOR agrees
      that submission of its claim within said twenty-one (21) days is an express condition precedent to its right
      to arbitrate or litigate such a claim.

      The provisions of th is section shall not apply if a Suspension Order is not issued by the DISTRICT. A
      Suspension Order shall not be required to stop the Project as permitted or required under any other
      provision of the Contract Documents.

40.   SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION
      Substantial Completion means the stage in the progress of the Project when the Project is complete in
      accordance with the Contract Documents, except only for completion of minor items which do not impair
      the DISTRICT's ability to occupy and fully utilize the Project for its intended purpose.

      When the CONTRACTOR gives notice to th e DISTRICT that the Project is substantially complete, unless the
      DISTRICT determines that the Project is not sufficiently complete to warrant an inspection to determine
      Substantial Completion, the DISTRICT will inspect the Project. If the DISTRICT determines that th e Project is
      not substantially completed, the DISTRICT will prepare and give to the CONTRACTOR a comprehensive list
      of items to be completed or corrected before establishing Substantial Completion. The CONTRACTOR shall
      proceed promptly to complete and correct items on the list. Failure to include an item on such list does not
      alter the responsibility of the CONTRACTOR to complete the Project in accordance with the Contract
      Documents. The DISTRICT will make an inspection to determine whether the Project is substantially
      comp lete.

41.   PUNCH LIST
      Once Substantial Completion has been determined, the CONTRACTOR shall conduct a site walk wit h th e
      DISTRICT and prepare a punch list. The CONTRACTOR shall complete all punch list items within twenty-one
      (21) calendar days after the issuance of th e punch list. The CONTRACTOR shall conduct follow-up punch
      wa lks as needed until all items have been completed to the satisfaction of the DISTRICT. The CONTRACTOR
      shall be the single point of contact for all punch list and warranty items and be responsible for all warranty
      items for the life of the Guaranty Period.

42.   FINAL COMPLETION
      All finished work will be subject to inspection and acceptance or rejection by the DISTRICT and any other
      government agencies having jurisdiction over the Project. Final Completion of the Project will be at the
      discretion of the DISTRICT.

      Once all punch list work has been completed and upon notification from the CONTRACTOR that the Project
      is ready for final inspection, the DISTRICT will make such inspection. In evaluating th e Project, no allowance
      will be made for deviations from the Contract Documents unless already approved in writing in accordance
      with th e terms and cond itions of this Agreement.

      Prior to acceptance of the Project, the CONTRACTOR shall perform the final clean-up of the Project site(s)
      including, but not limited to, t rash and debris disposal, glass cleaning, trash chutes, and street cleaning, as
      applicable.

      Before the DISTRICT determines Final Completion, the CONTRACTOR must:
          a) Submit the final Application for Payment and all submittals required in accordance with this
                Agreement; and
           b)   Submit all guarantees and warranties procured by the CONTRACTOR from subcontra ctors and all
                operating manuals for equipment installed in the Project, as applicable.

      The DISTRICT will accept the Project in writing only when the Project has been fully completed to t he
      DISTRICT's reasonable satisfaction and in accordance with the Contract Documents, including, without

                                                                                                       Page lS of 27

                                                                                                                         P45
      limitation, satisfaction of all punch list items and submittals of required documents. When the DISTRICT
      determines that the Project has reached Final Completion, a Notice of Completion will be sent in writing to
      the CONTRACTOR.

      The fact that the work and materials have been inspected from time to time and that progress payments
      have been made shall in no way be construed as acceptance of any part of the Project and does not relieve
      the CONTRACTOR of the responsibility of replacing and making good any defective or omitted work or
      materials in accordance with the requirements of the Contract Documents.

      Acceptance of final payment by the CONTRACTOR shall constitute a waiver of all claims, except claims
      previously made in writing and identified by the CONTRACTOR as unsettled at the time of the final
      Application for Payment.

43.   GUARANTY
      The CONTRACTOR warrants to the DISTRICT that all materials and equipment furnished under this
      Agreement will be of good quality, new, and free of liens, claims, and security interests of third Parties; that
      the construction work will be of good quality and free from defects; and that the construction work will
      conform to the requirements of the Contract Documents. If required by the DISTRICT, the CONTRACTOR
      shall furnish satisfactory evidence as to the kind and quality of materials and equipment.

      The CONTRACTOR guarantees the entirety of the Project for one (1) year from the date of Final Compl etion
      for the correction of defective work (Guaranty Period). Defective work is work that is unsatisfactory, faulty,
      omitted, incomplete, deficient, or does not conform to the requirements of the Contract Documents,
      directives of the DISTRICT, or the requirements of any inspection, reference standard, test, or approval
      specified in the Contract Documents.

      The CONTRACTOR shall (1) correct defective work that becomes apparent during the progress of the Project
      or during the Guaranty Period and (2) replace, repair, or restore to the DISTRICT's satisfaction any other
      parts of the Project and any other real or personal property which is damaged or destroyed as a result of
      defective work or the correction of defective work. The CONTRACTOR shall promptly commence such
      correction, replacement, repair, or restoration upon notice from the DISTRICT, but in no case later than ten
      (10) days after receipt of such notice; and the CONTRACTOR shall diligently and continuously prosecute
      such correction to completion. The CONTRACTOR shall bear all costs of such correction, replacement,
      repair, or restoration, and all losses resulting from such defective work, including additional testing and
      inspection. The CONTRACTOR shall perform corrective work at such times t hat are acceptable to the
      DISTRICT and in such a manner as to avoid, to the extent practicable, disruption to the DISTRICT's
      operations.

      If immediate correction of defective work is required for life safety or the protection of property and is
      performed by the DISTRICT or separate contractors, the CONTRACTOR shall pay to the DISTRICT all
      reasonable costs of correcting such defective work. The CONTRACTOR shall replace, repair, or restore to
      the DISTRICT's satisfaction any other parts of the Project and any other real or personal property which is
      damaged or destroyed as a result of such defective work or the correction of such defective work.

      Th e CONTRACTOR shall remove from the Project site(s) portions of the Project and materials whi ch are not
      in accordance with the Contract Documents and which are neither corrected by the CONTRACTOR nor
      accepted by the DISTRICT.

      If the CONTRACTOR fails to commence correction of defective work with in t en (10) days after notice from
      the DISTRICT or fails to diligently prosecute such correction to completion, the DISTRICT may correct the
      defective work; and, in addition, the DISTRICT may remove the defective work and store salvageable
      materials and equipment at the CONTRACTOR's expense.

      If the CONTRACTOR fails to pay the costs of such removal and storage as required by this section within ten
      (10) days after written demand, the DISTRICT may, without prejudice to other remedies, sell such materials
      at auction or at private sale, or oth erwise dispose of such material. The CONTRACTOR shall be entitled to

                                                                                                        Page 16 of 27

                                                                                                                         P46
      the proceeds of such sale, if any, in excess of the costs and damages for which the CONTRACTOR is liable to
      the DISTRICT. If such proceeds of sale do not cover costs and damages for which the CONTRACTOR is liable
      to the DISTRICT, the contract value shall be reduced by such deficiency. If there are no remaining payments
      due the CONTRACTOR or the remaining payments are insufficient to cover such deficiency, the
      CONTRACTOR shall promptly pay the difference to the DISTRICT.

      The CONTRACTOR's obligations under this section are in addition to and not in limitation of its Warranty in
      accordance with this Agreement or any other obligation of the CONTRACTOR under the Contract
      Documents. Enforcement of the CONTRACTOR's express warranties and guarantees to repair contained in
      the Contract Documents shall be in addition to and not in limitation of any other rights or remedies the
      DISTRICT may have under the Contrac·t Documents or at law or in equity for defective work. Nothing
      contained in this section shall be construed to establish a period of limitation with respect to other
      obligations of the CONTRACTOR under the Contract Documents. Establishment of the Guarantee to Repair
      Period relates only to the specific obligation of the CONTRACTOR to correct the defective work and in no
      way limits either the CONTRACTOR's liability for defective work or the time within which proceedings may
      be commenced to enforce the CONTRACTOR's obligations under the Contract Documents.

44.   ASSURANCE OF PERFORMANCE
      If at any time DISTRICT believes the CONTRACTOR may not be adequately performing its obligations under
      this Agreement or th at the CONTRACTOR may fail to complete the services as required by this Agreement,
      DISTRICT may, at its option, request from the CONTRACTOR prompt written assurances of performance and
      a written plan acceptable to DISTRICT, to correct the observed deficiencies in the CONTRACTOR's
      performance. The CONTRACTOR shall provide such written assurances and written plan within ten (10)
      calendar days of the receipt of DISTRICT request and shall thereafter diligently commence and fully perform
      such written plan. The CONTRACTOR acknowledges and agrees that any failure to provide such written
      assurances and written plan within the required time shall constitute grounds for termination pursuant to
      the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

45.   TERMINATION BY CONTRACTOR FOR CAUSE
      The CONTRACTOR shall have the right to terminate this Agreement only upon the occurrence of one of the
      following:
           a) Provided that the DISTRICT has not commenced reasonable action t o remove any order of a court
               within the ninety (90) day period, the Project is stopped for ninety (90) consecutive days, through
               no act or fault of the CONTRACTOR, any subcontractor, or any employee or agent of the
               CONTRACTOR or any subcontractor, due to an issuance of an order of a court or other public
               authority having jurisdiction or due to an act of government, such as a declaration of a national
               emergency making material unavailable.
           b) The DISTRICT fails to perform any material obligation under the Contract Documents and fails to
               cure such default within thirty (30) days, or the DISTRICT has not commenced to cure such default
               within thirty (30) days where such cure will require a reasonable period beyond thirty (30) days
               and diligently prosecutes the same to completion, after receipt of notice from the CONTRACTOR
               stating the nature of such default.
           c) Repeated suspensions by the DISTRICT, other than such suspensions as are agreed to by the
               CONTRACTOR, which constitute in the aggregate more than 20% of the Contract Time.

      Upon the occurrence of one of the events listed in above, the CONTRACTOR may, upon ten (10) days
      additional notice to the DISTRICT, and provided that the condition giving rise to the CONTRACTOR's right to
      terminate is continuing, terminate this Agreement.

      Upon such termin ation by the CONTRACTOR, the DISTRICT shall pay to the CONTRACTOR the sum of the
      following:
           a) The amount of the contract value allocable to the portion of the Project properly performed by
               the CONTRACTOR as of the date of termination, less sums previously paid to the CONTRACTOR;
           b) Plus, an amount equal to 5% of the difference between the contract value and the amount of the
               contract value allocable to the portion of the Project properly performed by the CONTRACTOR as
               of the date of termination;

                                                                                                    Page 17 of 27

                                                                                                                     P47
          c)   Plus, previously unpaid costs of any items delivered to the Project site which were fabricated for
               subsequent incorporation in the Project;
          d)   Plus, any proven losses with respect to materials and equipment directly resulting from such
               termination;
          e)   Plus, reasonable demobilization costs;
          f)   Plus, reasonable costs of preparing a statement of the aforesaid costs, expenses, and losses in
               connection w ith such termination.

      Such payment will be the sole and exclusive remedy to which the CONTRACTOR is entitled in the event of
      termination of this Agreement by the CONTRACTOR pursuant to this section; and the CONTRACTOR will be
      entitled to no other compensation or damages and expressly waives the same.

46.   TERMINATION BY DISTRICT FOR CAUSE
      The DISTRICT will have the right to terminate this Agreement for cause at any time after the occurrence of
      any of the following events:
          a) The CONTRACTOR becomes insolvent or files for relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United
               States.
          b) The CONTRACTOR makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors or fails to pay its
               debts as the same become due.
          c) A receiver is appointed to take charge of the CONTRACTOR's property.
          d) The commencement or completion of any activity on the critical path is more than thirty {30) days
               behind t he date set forth in the Contract Time for such activity, and which results in an inexcusable
               delay.
          e) The CONTRACTOR abandons the Project.
          f) Material breach by the CONTRACTOR of any term of this Agreement.

      Upon the occurrence of any of the following events, the DISTRICT will have the right to terminate this
      Agreement for cause if the CONTRACTOR fails to promptly commence to cure such default and diligently
      prosecute such cure within five (5) days after notice from the DISTRICT, or within such longer period of time
      as is reasonably necessary to complete such cure:
           a) The CONTRACTOR persistently or repeatedly refuses or fails to supply skilled supervisory
                personnel, an adequate number of properly skilled workers, proper materials, or necessary
                equipment to prosecute the Project in accordance with the Contract Documents.
           b) The CONTRACTOR fails to make prompt payment of amounts properly due subcontractors after
                receiving payment from the DISTRICT.
           c) The CONTRACTOR disregards applicable code requirements.
           d) The CONTRACTOR persistently or materially fails to execute the Project in accordance with the
                Contract Documents.
           e) The CONTRACTOR is in default of any other material obligation under the Contract Documents.
           f) The CONTRACTOR persistently or materially fails to comply with applicable safety requirements.

      Upon any of the occurrences referred to in above, the DISTRICT may, at its election and by notice to the
      CONTRACTOR, terminate this Agreement and take possession of the Project site(s) and all materials,
      supplies, equipment, tools, and construction equipment and machinery thereon owned by the
      CONTRACTOR; accept the assignment of any or all of the subcontracts; and then complete the Project by
      any method the DISTRICT may deem expedient. If requested by the DISTRICT, the CONTRACTOR shall
      remove any part or all of the CONTRACTOR's materials, supplies, equipment, tools, and construction
      equipment and machinery from the Project site(s) within seven (7) days of such request; and if the
      CONTRACTOR fails to do so, the DISTRICT may remove or store, and after ninety (90) days sell, any of the
      same at the CONTRACTOR's expense.

      If this Agreement is terminated by the DISTRICT as provided in this section, the CONTRACTOR shall not be
      entitled to receive any further payment until the expiration of thirty-five (35) days after Final Completion
      and acceptance of the Project by the DISTRICT.




                                                                                                       Page 18 of 27

                                                                                                                        P48
      If the unpaid balance of the contract value exceeds the cost of completing the Project, including all
      additional costs and expenses made necessary thereby, including costs for the DISTRICT's staff time, plus
      all losses sustained, such excess shall be paid to the CONTRACTOR. If such costs, expenses, and losses
      exceed the unpaid balance of the contract value, the CONTRACTOR shall pay such excess to the DISTRICT.

      No termination or action taken by the DISTRICT after termination shall prejudice any other rights or
      remedies of the DISTRICT provided by law or by the Contract Documents upon such termination; and th e
      DISTRICT may proceed against the CONTRACTOR to recover all l9sses suffered by the DISTRICT.

47.   TERMINATION BY DISTRICT FOR CONVENIENCE
      The DISTRICT may, at its option, terminate this Agreement, in whole or from time to time in part, at any
      time by giving notice to the CONTRACTOR. Upon such termination, the CONTRACTOR agrees to waive any
      claims for damages, including loss of anticipated profits, ,on account thereof; and, as the sole right and
      remedy of the CONTRACTOR, the DISTRICT shall pay the CONTRACTOR as outlined below.

      Upon receipt of notice of termination under this section, the CONTRACTOR shall, unless the notice directs
      otherwise, do the following:
          a) Immediately discontinue work on the Project to the extent specified in the notice.
          b) Place no further orders or subcontracts for materials, equipment, services, or facilities, except as
              may be necessary for completion of such portion of the Project as is not discontinued.
          c) Promptly cancel, on the most favorable terms reasonably possible, all subcontracts to the extent
              they relate to the performance of the discontinued portion of the Project.
          d) Th ereafter do only such work as may be necessary to preserve and protect work on the Project
              already in progress and to protect materials, plants, and equipment on the Project site(s) or in
              transit thereto.

      Upon such termination, the obligations of this Agreement shall continue as to portions of the Project
      already performed and, subject to th e CONTRACTOR's obligations outlined above, as to bona fide
      obligations assumed by the CONTRACTOR prior to the date of termination_

      Upon such termination, the DISTRICT shall pay to the CONTRACTOR the amount of the contract value
      allocable to the portion of the Proj ect properly performed by the CONTRACTOR as of the date of
      termination, less sums previously paid to the CONTRACTOR,

      The above payment shall be t he sole and exclusive remedy to which the CONTRACTOR is entitled in the
      event of termination of this Agreement by the DISTRICT pursuant to this section; and the CONTRACTOR will
      be entitled to no other compensation or damages and expressly waives same.

48.   DISPUTE RESOLUTION AND CONTINUANCE OF WORK
      In the event of a dispute between the Parties as to performance of the work or the interpretation of this
      Agreement, or payment or nonpayment for work performed or not performed, the Parties shall attempt to
      resolve the dispute. The CONTRACTOR or the DISTRICT may demand in writing an informal meet and confer
      conference to attempt to settle any matter in dispute. If the Parties are unable to settl e the dispute, the
      matter shall be submitted to mediation, pursuant to the terms of California Public Contract Code
      9204(d)(2)(B). Pending resolution of this dispute, th e CONTRACTOR agrees to continue the Project diligently
      to completion. If the dispute is not resolved, the CONTRACTOR agrees it shall neither rescind this Agreement
      nor stop the progress of the Project. If the matter is not resolved after mediation, the CONTRACTOR's sole
      remedy shall be to submit such controversy to binding arbitration. Such arbitration shall be conducted in
      accordance with California Code of Civil Procedure 1280-1294.4 which provisions are expressly
      incorporated herein. The prevailing party shall be entitled, as part of its costs, to a reasonable attorney's
      fee to be fixed by the court or the arbitrator.

49.   ASSIGNMENT OF UNFAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES CLAIMS
      In accordance with California Public Contract Code Section 7103.5, the CONTRACTOR an,d any
      subcontractors offer and agree to assign to the DISTRICT all rights, title, and interest in and to all causes of
      action the CONTRACTOR or any subcontractors may have under Section 4 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. §


                                                                                                       Page 19 of 27

                                                                                                                         P49
      15) or under the Cartwright Act (Chapter 2 (commencing with§ 16700) of Part 2 of Division 7 of the Business
      and Professions Code), arising from purchases of goods, services or materials pursuant to this contract. This
      assignment shall be made and become effective at the time the DISTRICT renders final payment to the
      CONTRACTOR, without further acknowledgement by the Parties.

50.   CLAIMS
      In accordance with California Public Contract Code Section 20104.2, the following procedures apply to
      claims of $375,000 or less between the CONTRACTOR and the DISTRICT.
           a) The claim shall be in writing and include the documents necessary to substantiate the claim. Claims
               must be delivered within twenty-one (21) calendar days after the occurrence of the event giving
               rise to such claim or within twenty-one {21) calendar days after the claimant first recognizes the
               condition giving rise to the claim, whichever is later: Failure to submit a claim within the specified
               tim e frame shall be reason to reject the claim. Claims must be filed on or before the date of final
               payment. Nothing in this subdivision is intended to extend the time limit or supersede notice
               requirements otherwise provided by contract for the filing of claims.
           b) For claims of less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), the DISTRICT shall respond in writing to any
               written claim within forty-five (45) days of receipt of the claim, or may request, in writing, within
               thirty {30) days of receipt of the claim, any additional documentation supporting the claim or
               relating to defenses to the claim the DISTRICT may have against the CONTRACTOR. If additional
               information is thereafter required, it shall be requested and provided pursuant to this subdivision,
               upon mutual agreement of the DISTRICT and the CONTRACTOR. The DISTRICT's written response
               to the claim, as further documented, shall be submitted to the CONTRACTOR within fifteen (15)
               days after receipt of the further documentation or within a period of time no greater than that
               taken by the CONTRACTOR in producing the additional information, whichever is greater.
           c) For claims of over fifty thousand dollars {$50,000) and less than or equal to three hundred seventy-
                five thousand dollars ($375,000), the DISTRICT shall respond in writing to all written claims within
               sixty {60) days of receipt of the claim, or may request, in writing, within thirty {30) days of receipt
                of the claim, any additional documentation supporting the claim or relating to defenses to t he
                claim the DISTRICT may have against the CONTRACTOR. If additional information is thereafter
                required, it shall be requested and provided pursuant to this subdivision, upon mutual agreement
                of the DISTRICT and the CONTRACT. The DISTRICT's written response to the claim, as further
                documented, shall be submitted to the CONTRACTOR within thirty (30) days after receipt of the
                further documentation, or within a period of time no greater than that taken by the CONTRACTOR
                in producing the additional information or requested documentation, whichever is greater.
           d) If the CONTRACTOR disputes the DISTRICT's written response, or the DISTRICT fails to respond
                within the time prescribed, the CONTRACTOR may so notify the DISTRICT, in writing, either within
                fifteen (15) days of receipt of the DISTRICT's response or within fifteen (15) days of the DISTRICT's
                fai lure to respond within the t ime prescribed, respectively, and demand an informal conference
                to meet and confer for settlement of the issues in dispute. Upon a demand, the DISTRICT shall
                schedule a meet and confer conference within thirty (30) days for settlement of the dispute.
           e) Following the meet and confer conference, if the claim or any portion remains in dispute, the
                CONTRACTOR may file a claim as provided in Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 900) and
                Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 910) of Part 3 of Division 3.6 of Title 1 of the Government
                Code. For purposes of those provisions, the running of the period of time within which a claim
                must be filed shall be toll ed from t he time the CONTRACTOR submits his or her written claim
                pursu ant to subdivision (a) until the time that claim is denied as a result of the meet and confer
                process, including any period of time utilized by the meet and confer process.
           f) This article does not apply to tort claims and nothing in this article is intended nor shall be
                construed to change the time periods for filing tort claims or actions specified by Chapter 1
                (commencing with Section 900) and Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 910) of Part 3 of Division
                3.6 of Titl e 1 of the Government Code.

      In accordance with California Public Contract Code Section 20104.4, the following procedures apply to civil
      actions to resolve claims of $375,000 or less between the DISTRICT and the CONTRACTOR:
           a) Within sixty (60) days, but no earlier than thirty {30) days, following the filing or responsive
               pleadings, the court shall submit the matter to non-binding mediation unless waived by mutual

                                                                                                       Page 20 of 27

                                                                                                                         P50
             stipulation of both Parties. The mediation process shall provide for the selection within fifteen (15)
             days by both Parties of a disinterested third person as mediator, shall be commenced within thirty
             (30) days of the submittal, and shall be concluded within fifteen (15) days from the
             commencement of the mediation unless a time requirement is extended upon a good cause
             showing to the court or by stipulation of both Parties. If the Parties fail to select a mediator within
             the 15-day period, any party may petition the court to appoint the mediator.
          b) If the matter remains in dispute, the case shall be submitted to judicial arbitration pursuant to
             Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 1141.10) ofTitle 3 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
             notwithstanding Section 1141.11 of that code. The Civil Discovery Act of 1986 (Article 3
             (commencing with Section 2016) of Chapter 3 of Title 3 of Part 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure)
             shall apply to any proceeding brought under this subdivision consistent with the rules pertaining
             to judicial arbitration.
          c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon stipulation of the Parties, arbitrators appointed
             for purposes of this article shall be experienced in construction law, and, upon stipulation of the
             Parties, mediators and arbitrators shall be paid necessary and reasonable hourly rates of pay not
             to exceed their customary rate, and such fees and expenses shall be paid equally by the Parties,
             except in the case of arbitration where the arbitrator, for good cause, determines a different
             division. In no event shall these fees or expenses be paid by state or county funds. In addition to
             Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 1141.10) of Title 3 of Part 3 of th e Code of Civil Procedure,
             any party who is receiving an arbitration award request~ a trial de nova but does not obtain a more
             favorable judgment shall, in addition to payment of costs and fees under that chapter, pay the
             attorney's fees of the other party arising out of the trial de nova.
          d) The court may, upon request by any party, order any witnesses to participate in the mediation or
             arbitration process.

      In accordance with California Public Contract Code Section 20104.6, the DISTRICT shall not fail to pay money
      as to any portion of a claim which is undisputed except as otherwise provided in the Agreement. In any suit
      filed under Public Contract Code Section 20104.4 concerning the Agreement, the DISTRICT shall pay interest
      at the legal rate on any arbitration award or judgment. Such interest shall accrue from date the suit was
      filed.

51.   CHOICE OF LAW AND VENUE
      The CONTRACTOR agrees that if a dispute arises in the performance of this Agreement the laws of the State
      of California will govern. Venue for any legal action arising out of this Agreement shall be in the Superior
      Court for the State of California, County of Sacramento.

52.   ENTIRE AGREEMENT
      This Agreement, including all attachments, exhibits, and any other documents specifically incorporated into
      this Agreement, shall constitute the entire agreement between DISTRICT and the CONTRACTOR relating to
      the subject matter of this Agreement. As used herein, Agreement refers to and includes any documents
      incorporated herein by reference and any exhibits or attachments.

      This Agreement supersedes and merges all previous understandings, and all other agreements, written or
      oral, between the Parties and sets forth the entire understanding of the Parties regarding the subj ect matter
      thereof.

53.   ACCESS AND RETENTION OF RECORDS
      The CONTRACTOR shall provide the DISTRICT and its designees, upon request, access to all records related
      this Agreement, and the CONTRACTOR shall maintain its records related to this Agreement for a period of
      not less than five (5) years after the fin al payment to the CONTRACTOR is made by the DISTRICT.

54.   MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT
      This Agreement may be supplemented, amended, or modified only by the mutual agreement of the Parties.
      No supplement, amendment, or modification of this Agreement shall be binding unless it is in writing and
      signed by authorized representatives of both Parties.



                                                                                                     Page 21 of 27

                                                                                                                       P51
55.   SEVERABILITY
      If any part of t his Agreement or the application thereof is declared to be invalid for any reason, such
      invalidity shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement which can be given effect without the
      invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this Agreement are deemed severable.

56.   SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS
      This Agreement is binding upon and inures to the benefit of the successor, executors, administrators, and
      assigns of each party to this Agreement, provided, however, that the CONTRACTOR shall not assign or
      transfer by operation of law or otherwise any or all rights, burdens, duties, or obligations without prior
      written consent of the DISTRICT. Any attempted assignment without such consent shall be invalid.

57.   NOTICES
      All notices, requesJs, demands, or other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing. Notices
      shall be given for all purposes as follows:

      Personal delivery: When personally delivered to the recipient, notices are effective on delivery.

      First Class M ail: When mailed first class to the last address of the recipient known to the party giving notice,
      notice is effective three (3) mail delivery days after deposit in a United States Postal Service office or
      mailbox.

      Certified Mail: When mailed certified mail, return receipt requested, notice is effect ive on receipt, if
      delivery is confirmed by a return receipt.
      Overnight Delivery: When delivered by overnight delivery (Federal Express/Airborne/United Parcel
      Service/OHL Worldwide Express) with charges prepaid or charged to the sender's account, notice is
      effective on delivery, if delivery is confirmed by the delivery service.

      Addresses for purpose of giving notice are as follows:

      To DISTRICT:                                             To CONTRACTOR:
      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                    WestNet, LLC
      Attn: Erin Castleberry, Pl anning and Development        Attn: contracts@westnetpublicsafety.com
      10545 Armstrong Avenue, Suite 200                        15542 Chemical Lane
      Mather, CA 95655                                         Huntington Beach, CA 92649

      Any correctly address.ed notice that is refused, unclaimed, or undeliverable because of an act or omission
      of the party to be notified shall be deemed effective as of t he first date that said notice was refused,
      unclaimed, or deemed undeliverable by the postal authorit ies, messenger, or overnight delivery service.

      Any party may change its address by giving the other party notice of t he change in any manner permitted
      by this Agreement.

58.   SIGNATORIES
      By signing t his Agreement, signatories warrant and represent that they have executed this Agreement in
      their authorized capacity.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year above
      written.

      DISTRICT:                                                CONTRACTOR:



      Adam A. House, Fire Chief                                Steven J. Anderson, CFO

      Date: _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ __                           Date: _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ __



                                                                                                         Page 22 of 27

                                                                                                                          P52
     EXHIBIT A
   Scope of Work


(Insert scope of work)




                         Page 23 of 27

                                         P53
                                                     EXHIBIT B
                                                   Payment Terms

1.   CONTRACT PRICE
     As full compensation in consideration of completion of the Project in accordance with the Contract Documents,
     and in consideration of the fulfilment of all of the CONTRACTOR's obligations under the Contract Documents,
     the DISTRICT will pay to the CONTRACTOR in lawful money of the United States the t otal price of $152,040.

2.   PAYMENTTERMS
     Payment will be made to the CONTRACTOR in accordance with the following:
     A. Basis of Payment. Payment shall be made in accordance with the milestones outlined below:

           Milestone                                              Payment
           Contract Execution                                     30% Contract Price
           Delivery of Materials                                  30% Contract Price
           Substantial Completion (Installation)                  30% Contract Price
           Final Completion (Acceptance of System)                10% Contract Price

          The CONTRACTOR shall accept a purchase order from the DISTRICT with Net 45-day payment terms from
          the date of the application for payment.

     B.   Applications for Payment. Applications for payment shall be provided to the DISTRICT in accordance with
          th e completion of the milestones noted above. To be eligible for payment, the CONTRACTOR's applications
          for payment shall include a copy of all applicable internal certified payroll reports from the CONTRACTOR
          an d any subcontractors, and all necessary supporting documentation (such as fringe benefits statement),
          prepared in accordance with California Labor Code Section 1776 and the Agreement for each employee of
          the CONTRACTOR and any subcontractors engaged in the performance of the Project during the preceding
          months. The certified payroll records shall be on the forms provided by the Division of Labor Standards
          Enforcement or shall contain the same information as the forms provided by the division
          (https://www.dir.ca.gov/ilse/DLSE-PublicWorks.htm). Separately, the CONTRACTOR and all subcontractors
          shall also submit their certified payroll records directly to the Labor Commissioner using the DIR's data-
          driven electronic Certified Payroll Record (eCPR) reporting system as required by the Agreement.
          Applications for payment will not be processed without the required internal certified payroll reports and
          verification that such certified payroll reports have been uploaded to the DIR as described herein. Copies
          of submitted eCPRs may be provided to th e DISTRICT as a supplement to the required internal certified
          payroll reports, but in no way shall be considered a substitute for the required internal certified payroll
          reports. Failure to comply with these requirements or to provide an application for payment in
          conformance with this section may delay payment.

     C.   Final Payment. The DISTRICT shall pay the CONTRAtTOR's final application for payment in accordance with
          applicable law and this section, following acceptance of the Project provided that:
            1) The CONTRACTOR has furnished satisfactory evidence that all clain:is for labor and material have
                 been paid, or the time for filing valid stop notices has passed and no stop notices have been filed, or
                 all stop notices filed have been released by valid release or release bond acceptable to the DISTRICT.
            2) No claim has been presented to the DISTRICT by any person based upon any acts or omissions of the
                 CONTRACTOR or any subcontractor engaged in the performance of the Project.
            3) No other claim or dispute exists under the Agreement or applicable law concerning payment of the
                 CONTRACTOR's final invoice.
            4) The CONTRACTOR's application for final payment contains a written waiver of all claims against the
                 DISTRICT of which the CONTRACTOR may not yet have asserted at the time of the submission of the
                 application for final payment.




                                                                                                         Page 24 of 27

                                                                                                                           P54
                                                     EXHIBIT C
                                         Prime Contractor Information Form

This Project is subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the California Department of Industrial
Relations. The prime contractor shall post job site notices, as prescribed by regulation. Add itionally, each contractor
and subcontractor shall furnish the records specified in Section 1776 of the California Labor Code directly to the
Labor Commissioner at least monthly in a format prescribed by the Labor Commissioner.

Any person or entity submitting a bid on this project to engage in the business or act in t he capacity of a contractor
shall be licensed as a contractor in accordance with the provisions of Division 3, Chapter 9 of the California Business
and Professions Code and registered as a Public Works Contractor (PWC) w ith the DIR pursuant to California Labor
Code Section 1725.5. The contractor is required to possess one or more of the following California State Contractor
Licenses for this project: Class C-7. The contractor's contractor license and PWC registration must remain active and
in good standing throughout the term of the agreement.

Additionally, the Contractor shall familiarize themselves with the following sections of the California Labor Code for
additional requirements: 1771, 1774 - 1776, 1777.5, 1813 and 1815.

Legal Business Name of Contractor: _ _ _ __ _ _ __ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ __ __ _ _ _ _


Address: - - - -- -- -- - -- - - - -- -- - - - -- - - - - - -- - - -- - - -

Mailing Address (if different from above): _ __ __ __ _ __ _ _ __ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ _

Federa l Tax ID#: _ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __                  Contractor's License Classification: _ _ _ __ _ __ _

CA Contractor License#: _ _ _ _ __ __ __                 Contract or License Expiration Date: _ _ __ _ _ __ _

DIR PWC Registration #: _ _ __ _ __ __ _                 DIR PWC Registration Expiration Date: _ __ _ __ _ _

Labor Classificat ion(s):_ __ __ _ __ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ __

Will subcontractor(s) be used?                □   Yes               D     No

Does the cost of this project exceed $25,000? If yes, a payment bond in an amount not less than 100% of the total
amount of the public works contract shall be provided to the District prior to the commencement of any work.
 ~ Yes D No


Contractor Point of Contact:._ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ __ __ __ _ _ _ __ __ __ _ _ _ _ __


Title: - -- - - - -- -- - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - -

Email Address: _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _                    Phone //:._ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __ _ __ _

Contractor Signature: _ _ __ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _                               Date: _ _ _ __ _ __ _ __




                                                                                                          Page 25 of 27

                                                                                                                           P55
                                                     EXHIBIT D
                                           Designation of Subcontractors

In compliance with the provisions of Section 4104 of the California Public Contract Code, the Contractor shall set
forth the name, location of the place of business, the California contractor license number, and Public Works
Contractor Registration (PWCR) number issued pursuant to Section 1725.5 of the Labor Code of each subcontractor
who will perform work or labor or render service to the prime Contractor in or about the construction of the work
or improvement, or a subcontractor licensed by the State of California who, under subcontract to the prime
Contractor, specially fabricates and installs a portion of the work or improvement according to detailed drawings
contained in the plans and specifications, in an amount in excess of one-half of 1 percent of the prime Contractor's
total bid.       •

Additionally, the portion of the work that will be done by each subcontractor under this act shall be disclosed. The
prime Contractor shall list only one subcontractor for each portion as is defined by the prime Contractor in his or her
bid. If the prime Contractor fails to specify a subcontractor for any portion of the work to be performed under the
contract, the prime Contractor shall be deemed to have agreed to perform such portion itself, and the prime
Contractor shall not be permitted to subcontract that portion of the work except under the conditions allowed by
applicable law.

Except as provided for in California Public Contract Code Sections 4107 or 4109, a prime Contra ctor whose bid is
accepted may not substitute a person as a subcontractor in place of the subcontractor listed on the original bid.

 SUBCONTRACTOR NAME                 CALIFORNIA
     & LOCATION                 CONTRACTOR LICENSE#                   PWCR #                 PORTION OF WORK




Legal Business Name of Contractor: _ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __

Contractor Point of Contact:_ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ _ __ _

Title: _ __ _ __ __ _ _ __ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ ____
                                                     ; _ __ _ __ _ _ _ __

Contractor Signature: _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ _ _                              Date: _ __ _ _ __ __ __




                                                                                                         Page 26 of 27

                                                                                                                          P56
                                                 EXHIBIT E
                                      Workers' Compensation Declaration

The undersigned declares:



        I am aware of the provisions of Section 3700 of the Labor Code which require every employer to be insured
        against liability for workers' compensation or to undertake self-insurance in accordance wit h the provisions
        of that code, and I will comply with such provisions before commencing the performance of the work of
        this contract.


Legal Business Name of Contractor: _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __ __ __ _ _ __

Contractor Point of Contact:_ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _


Title: - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- -- - - - - - -- - - - -- - -- -- -- - - -

Contractor Signature: _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ __                               Date: _ __ __ __ _ _ __




                                                                              \




                                                                                                       Page 27 of 27

                                                                                                                        P57
