Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda

Tuesday, October 25, 2022

Closed Session at 5:45 p.m. followed by Regular Session at 6:30 p.m.

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the regular meeting to order at 5:46 p.m. Other Board members
present: Bina Lefkovitz, Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Joanne Ahola, Alfred Brown,
Harold Fong (arrived at 5:52), and Heather Davis (arrived at 5:51 p.m.).

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Executive Director Jerry Jones, and Executive
Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Ahola lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

Before recessing into Closed Session, President Keefer asked if there were any Public
Comments related to California Court of Appeal (Third District) Case No. C093475.

There were no Public Comments.

President Keefer announced the following: The Board will convene in Closed Session,
under Government Code Section 54956.9(d)(1). The Board will meet in Closed Session
regarding Pending Litigation of the California Court of Appeal (Third District) Case No.
C093475. The Board provided public notice that the Board will meet in Closed Session
for this purpose.

Recessed Open Session at 5:48 p.m.

The Board reconvened Open Session at 6:32 p.m.

President Keefer stated that the Board took no action in Closed Session.

2. Approval of Minutes



10.25.22 Minutes                                                                        1
A. Motion by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Fong to approve the minutes of the
Special Meeting of September 13, 2022.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Fong, Trustee Davis,
Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola
Abstentions: Trustee Keefer

3. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano to adopt the
agenda.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Fong, Trustee Davis,
Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola, Trustee Keefer

4. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

5. Visitor Presentations

A. There were no Public Comments.

B. There were no requests from Employee Organizations.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

CDE Released Statewide CAASPP Scores

On October 24, the CDE released the statewide CAASPP scores, and it is important to
note that the 2021-2022 school year was the first year of in-person learning throughout
the state and a return to statewide testing. The Sacramento County Office of Education
(SCOE), in collaboration with its local districts has been closely monitoring assessment
data for English language arts (ELA) and math. Countywide for 2022, 45 percent of
students in Sacramento County met or exceeded ELA standards, four percentage
points lower than in 2019 and in mathematics, 32 percent of students in Sacramento
County met or exceeded math standards, six percentage points lower than in 2019.
While 2022 achievement scores in English language arts and math are lower than pre-
pandemic results, the decline was anticipated and similar to state and nationwide
results, math scores countywide were lower than ELA.

SCOE will continue working with local districts to provide ongoing instructional support
coupled with social and emotional learning. Additionally, for districts eligible for level 2


10.25.22 Minutes                                                                               2
support, SCOE is working to help build their capacity to improve and identify practices
that ensure every child has access to a high-quality education and individualized social
and emotional learning supports. The support SCOE provides consists of assisting the
LEA to identify its strengths and weaknesses in regard to the state priorities; and
working collaboratively with the school district to identify and implement effective
programs and practices to address any areas of weakness. Technical assistance and
support for continuous improvement are provided in a variety of ways such as:
Professional Learning Opportunities and Annual Speaker Series, Networked
Improvement Communities, and Communities of Practice (COPs). Individually designed
support provided by SCOE’s Continuous Improvement Teams (CIT) based on student
group performance on CA Dashboard. This support taps into various SCOE teams and
departments based on the specific needs of the district and their students.

RE-ENTRY PROGRAM: Adult Re-Entry Resource Fair

On October 20, in coordination with the Sacramento Community Based Coalition,
SCOE held its annual Adult Re-Entry Resource Fair benefiting justice-impacted
individuals seeking a successful transition back into the workforce and society. Nearly
80 providers came to serve several hundred clients and provide resources in the areas
of housing, substance abuse, education and literacy, vocational training, trades union,
employment, colleges, child support, family law, voluntary legal services, mentoring,
faith-based organizations, and physical and mental health. Thank you, Trustees Brown,
Lefkovitz, and Davis, for stopping by and showing your support for this amazing event.

ADULT EDUCATION: CAEP Summit

This week from October 25-28, 2022, the SCOE team will be attending the California
Adult Education Program Annual Summit featuring many innovative and engaging
sessions that will invigorate all CAEP consortia and members to continue to implement
the CAEP 2022-2025 Three-Year Plan.

Palmiter Café Opening

On October 27, students at Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High Culinary Café will host the
2022-23 School Year Cafe opening. We hope to see many of you there.

FAMILY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT: Annual Summit

On November 3, Family and Community Engagement (FACE) will host a summit
featuring speakers Hayin Kimner and Michael Serban.

Superintendents, Board Members, District Administrators, and many more educational
leaders are invited to attend this interactive session where participants will learn about
Family Empowerment Centers and Community Schools and how to support equity-
centered family engagement using a whole-child approach, explore strategies from the
Center for Universal Education (CUE) Family-School Engagement Playbook, and



10.25.22 Minutes                                                                             3
collaborate to transform how our systems serve students.

DIVERSITY, EQUITY, & INCLUSION WORK: Upcoming Series and Events

SCOE’s Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Department continues to offer a free series of
webinars for fall 2022. The department offers a variety of learning opportunities
throughout the school year as we work to develop strategies, programs, and services
that meet the unique needs of all learners, with the goal of eliminating gaps in
opportunity and achievement.

In partnership with the National Equity Project, SCOE continues to host a free learning
series to support educators in their growth as equity leaders. Sessions are online
through Zoom and there are two sessions left: Session 4: Navigating Complexity as
Equity Leaders (11/10/22) and Session 5: Managing and Coaching for Equity (12/7/22).

In partnership with Changing Perspectives, SCOE is offering a free learning series
focusing on understanding the inclusion of individuals with disabilities. These are also
online sessions through Zoom. Three sessions remain for this series: Session 3: Putting
Inclusive Practice into Action: The How of Inclusion (11/3/22); Session 4: Disability as
Diversity: Putting New Perceptions into Practice (1/12/23); and Session 5: The Bridge
Between Disability and Intersectionality (3/16/23).

The last series is A Way Forward: Planning a Better Tomorrow Through Knowing
History’s Impact on Today offered by Retired Sacramento Police Chief Daniel Hahn who
has already presented two sessions about Sacramento history and its impact on today’s
community. There was a session this afternoon and there is one more scheduled for
December 2.

SCHOOL OF EDUCATION: Teacher Intern Information Session

On November 8, 2022, SCOE’s School of Education will be hosting a teacher
information session to help interested candidates learn how they can earn a teaching
credential while serving as a paid, full-time classroom teacher. In this unique program,
an intensive two-year Intern Program is offered to provide second career professionals
and recent graduates with a non-traditional pathway into teaching. The Intern Program
includes practical, relevant coursework for Single Subject Math or Science, Mild to
Moderate Support Needs, and Multiple Subject candidates. County and district teams
are working to help fill the Spring and future cohorts and can provide people who want
to be School of Education Ambassadors with a mini communications tool kit to help us
spread the word and build a pipeline of educators.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by
Trustee Davis.




10.25.22 Minutes                                                                           4
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

By approval of the consent agenda, the following items were approved:

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
White/Michael Kast

Executive Director Michael Kast announced that the following students will be awarded
a diploma: 8 Candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School, 5 Candidates from
Cordova Lane Senior Extension, 1 Candidate from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior
Extension, and 12 Candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Motion to approve by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Fong.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

A. CA Community Schools Partnership Program (CCSPP) Regional Technical
Assistance Center (RTAC) Contract - Brent Malicote

10. New Business - Other

A. Board Report - SCOE Schools Comprehensive Data Report - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent White presented the SCOE Schools Comprehensive Data
Report.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas




10.25.22 Minutes                                                                        5
A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola stated that she was sorry to have missed the last meeting. She explained
that she was in Texas participating with the Cambiar Catalyst Fellowship she was
accepted into. One of their missions is to increase the number of leaders of color and
women leaders in education. Their cohorts include 70 percent of fellows that identify as
people of color, and 70 percent of fellows that identify as women. Trustee Ahola read an
excerpt from The Ground Water Approach.

Trustee Brown told the group about a 91-year-old Black female, Gladys May West, an
American mathematician known for her work contributing to the development of the
Global Positioning System (GPS).

Trustee Lefkovitz shared the basket she won at CCBE to share with the Board
members. She stated that she had the opportunity to attend the Sacramento County
School Boards Association Dinner where Chief Hahn spoke as well as his session
today. She commented that he stated how important it is to understand our history in
order to improve and that our young people also need to know our history. She met two
Folsom Cordova Unified School District student Board members at the SCSBA dinner.
The students told Trustee Lefkovitz that they have experienced microaggression at their
schools. They also told her that as Board members they are getting their district to start
their Ethnic Studies course a year earlier than is required. Trustee Lefkovitz stated that
she has been part of a CSBA DEI Learning series with Superintendent Gordon and
Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano stated that she will be working with Hamptons Foundation
on a health event in North Natomas this Sunday where glasses will be given away to
families and kids. She is hoping it will be an annual event. It takes place October 30
from 11:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m. SCOE’s Christine Smith will be there as well. She also
mentioned that the Latino Center of Art and Culture is celebrating the Día de los
Muertos which starts Friday and goes until Sunday. It is a wonderful cultural event
which takes place at 2700 Front Street.

Trustee Davis stated that her family has adopted two puppies from a humane
organization in Lodi. She asked if it would be possible to offer to train people to get their
licenses and certifications for social-emotional learning (SEL). She commented that it
seems like we are going to need so many and is curious about the possibility.

Assistant Superintendent Brent Malicote responded with a brief update on one of the
recent SEL initiatives.

Trustee Fong - no report.

B. Board President




10.25.22 Minutes                                                                            6
President Keefer stated that he concurs with a request Trustee Fong made earlier in the
meeting which is to receive Board Reports on the Friday before the Board meeting,
rather than on Monday. President Keefer read an excerpt from a book from 916Ink. The
piece was by GR from El Centro, entitled: "Dear Past Self.” He is reading the book from
the point when the students write about their family members and those that do not and
if there is hope in their voice. He encouraged the other Board members to read them as
well to help the Board have deeper conversations by gaining insight into the thoughts of
students.

C. Committees

There were no Committee reports.

12. Items for Distribution

A. October/November Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. November 15, 2022 and December 13, 2022

14. Adjournment

A. Motion to adjourn meeting by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola

The meeting adjourned at 8:17 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,



David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




10.25.22 Minutes                                                                       7
