Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m. REVISED
Tuesday, December 13, 2022

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the regular meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Other Board
members present: Bina Lefkovitz, Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Joanne Ahola, Alfred
Brown (via Zoom), Harold Fong, and Heather Davis.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendent Nick Schweizer; Assistant Superintendents Brent Malicote and
Jacqueline White; Executive Directors Michael Kast, Xanthi Soriano, and Jerry Jones;
Director Shanine Coats; and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Corona Sabeniano lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Approval of Minutes

A. Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of September 20, 2022
by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

B. Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of October 25, 2022
by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

3. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to approve the adoption of the agenda as presented by Trustee Fong, second
by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried

12.13.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         1
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

4. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

5. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

Sean Frame provided a public comment referencing agenda item 10A. Consideration
and Approval of Resolution No. 22-18 - Authorizing Five Percent Increase in Board
Member Compensation and agenda item 10C. Approval of the First Interim Financial
Report for the 2022-2023 Fiscal Year.

Tara Degg, CSEA President, made a public comment to thank everyone for the work
they are doing and stated that their chapter is growing and is acquiring new employees.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no requests from employee organizations.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

COURT AND COMMUNITY SCHOOL Graduations
This morning, we celebrated students at El Centro’s Graduation, and he would like to
thank Trustees Keefer, Corona Sabeniano, and Lefkovitz for your participation in the
event. Tomorrow, we look forward to having our winter Community School and Senior
Extension graduation at the Scottish Rite Masonic Center. Thank you Trustees Keefer
and Corona Sabeniano for confirming your attendance.

DISTRICT ACCOUNTABILITY: Release of the 2022 CA Dashboard
As you are aware, the state plans to release the 2022 California Dashboard this week.
What we are prepared to share is that first, the data are not a surprise. Similarly, to the
CAASPP (assessment) data, the release of the 2022 Dashboard is not the first time that
our local districts are seeing their student data. County offices and districts were aware
of what the data would be. Secondly, we remain committed and focused on student
learning and equity. Our primary function is to support the LEAs in Sacramento County
to improve outcomes for kids all year, ongoing. We will continue to provide leadership,
build partnerships, and implement innovative programs and policies for the academic
success of students and financial solvency of our districts. And thirdly, but more
importantly, the 2022 Dashboard establishes a new baseline and presents us with an
opportunity.

This is the first time that we have had a Dashboard since pre-pandemic (2019), so 2022
sets a new baseline for comparability. As county offices, we find the Dashboard to be
12.13.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            2
one of the most helpful tools in assisting our LEAs in identifying areas of need. We will
take this opportunity to further engage in the ongoing discussion with our districts to
monitor student progress and identify areas in need of support. Lastly, our local
improvement efforts are already underway. As you know, in recent presentations, we
are advancing equity, accelerating learning to reduce the achievement gap, and working
to amplify student and parent voice.

DIVERSITY, EQUITY, & INCLUSION WORK
Last week, we sent a message to SCOE employees, and we will have notices set up
here at the Meaney Center as well, letting everyone know that we are dedicated to
making strides towards greater equity, inclusion, and belonging at SCOE. As part of our
goal to create a more equitable and inclusive work environment, we are implementing
feedback received from staff such as having gender inclusive bathroom facilities. As a
first step, the two restrooms located near the technology services area on the first floor
of the Meaney Center will be converted to single-use gender inclusive restrooms. We
are also offering several professional development opportunities. One of our many
speakers, Dr. Nancy Dome from EPOCH Education, will join us this spring with a
module designed to provide participants with a framework for having courageous
conversations that build bridges, strengthen relationships, and set clear boundaries.
These learning opportunities and even more leadership training can be found on our
website under our School of Education.

SCOE’S CAREER PIPELINE – Building Awareness
This week, SCOE started the production work on a microsite with content that is
intended to help build awareness of our Career Pipeline. For the course of three days
this week, key leaders in this work will have been filmed including interns, clinicians,
and students enrolled in the Sacramento City Unified School District. Thank you to
everyone involved. These production assets will also be used for the recruitment efforts
of both our Educational Pathway and our Mental Health Clinician Pathway. Shanine
Coats has been steering much of this work, along with Chris Williams and our Mental
Health team.

CSBA Attendance: Civic Learning
Following the Thanksgiving break, many school leaders attended the CSBA conference.
Thank you, President Keefer and Trustees Brown, Corona Sabeniano, and Lefkovitz for
your participation at this important governance event. It was an honor joining in
community at CSBA to engage others and advocate for how county offices, school
districts, and the California Chief Justice’s Civic Learning Initiative can collaborate to
provide high quality K-12 civic learning across the state. He joined Maria Martinez-
Poulin, Deputy Superintendent, Los Angeles COE: Michael Matsuda, Superintendent of
Schools, Anaheim Union HSD; Judith McConnell, Administrative Presiding Justice,
Court of Appeal, Fourth Appellate District; and Stanley L. Johnson, Jr., Board Member,
Los Angeles COE on a panel discussion. Together, we delivered a powerful message of
civic engagement and student voice.

SCSBA Dinner
The Sacramento County School Boards Association Dinner Meeting is scheduled for
February 1, 2023. The guest speaker will be Matt J. Navo, Executive Director of the
California Collaborative for Educational Excellence and former superintendent of
12.13.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           3
Sanger Unified School District, and a former member of the State Board of Education.

CYBERSECURITY AND DISASTER RECOVERY
Several members of our technology services team provided Cybersecurity training to K-
12 technology professionals at the California IT in Education conference that had more
than 1,700 county office, district, and charter school technology staff attend from around
the State. Our own Jerry Jones gave two presentations on Disaster Recovery and
Business Continuity Planning. The presentations included the unveiling of a new
Business Continuity Plan Template, which will help K-12 agencies develop their own
Business Continuity Plans to ensure their organizations can continue functioning in the
event of a disaster. Jerry worked with other County Office CTOs to create the Business
Continuity materials as part of his work on the Disaster Recovery Subcommittee.

EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Last week, we collected food donations to supply holiday meals for our court and
community school students and families. This week, Team SCOE held another Team
Time to help staff connect and feel welcomed. He heard they made cranes to donate to
our students at El Centro who have a goal of making 1,000 paper cranes by the new
year as part of their restorative work and to help students rise above difficult
circumstances. This Thursday, staff will donate collected toys for the Sacramento
Sheriff’s Toy Project. Next week, El Centro will conclude their “Deck the Hall” book
drive.

CULINARY CAFÉ
A reminder that the Culinary Café will have its Holiday Lunch on December 15. Contact
Wende Watson if you would like to attend.

B. Recognition of the January 2023 Employees of the Month

Rebecca West, School Secretary, and Rachel Schwefel, Staff Secretary, were
recognized as Classified Employees of the Month for January 2023.

Sterling Alley, Special Education Teacher, was recognized as Certificated Employee of
the Month for January 2023.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

By approval of the consent agenda, the following items were approved:

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

12.13.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           4
C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
White/Michael Kast

Executive Director Michael Kast announced that 22 students will be awarded diplomas,
including 5 candidates from Nathanial S. Colley, Sr. High School; 3 candidates from
Cordova Lane Senior Extension; 4 candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School; 2
candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension; and 8 candidates from North
Area Senior Extension.

D. Approval of the School Plan for Student Achievement (SPSA) - Foundations
Academy - Michael Kast

E. Course Catalog - Jacqueline White

F. Dual Enrollment Partnership - Jacqueline White

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Fong, Trustee Davis,
Trustee Brown
Abstain: Trustee Keefer, Trustee Ahola

A. Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS) Phase Three Grant - Brent Malicote

B. Teacher Residency Implementation Grant - Dr. Nancy Herota

10. New Business - Other

A. Consideration and Approval of Resolution No. 22-18 - Authorizing Five Percent
Increase in Board Member Compensation - Teresa Stinson

General Counsel Teresa Stinson presented this item for the Board’s consideration,
which would increase Board member’s monthly compensation from $420 to $441.



12.13.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         5
Trustee Fong made a substitute motion to make the increase 2% instead of 5%. There
was not a second.

Motion by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Lefkovitz to approve Resolution No. 22-18
authorizing a five percent increase in Board member compensation.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola
No: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Fong

B. Appointment of Individuals to the Local Child Care and Development Planning
Council, 2022-2024 Term - Brent Malicote

Motion to approve by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

C. Approval of the First Interim Financial Report for the 2022-2023 Fiscal Year - Nicolas
Schweizer

D. 2022-2023 Budget Revision No. 1 - Nicolas Schweizer

Chair of the Budget Committee, Heather Davis presented Items 10.C. and 10.D.

Trustee Davis made a motion, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano to approve the
First Interim Financial Report for the 2022-2023 Fiscal Year and the 2022-2023 Budget
Revision No. 1.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

E. First Reading of Revisions to Board Policy 5142 - Authorization to Administer
Medication and for Parent Administration of Medicinal Cannabis - Policy Committee

F. First Reading of Revisions to Board Policy 6146.1 - Graduation Requirements -
Policy Committee

G. First Reading of Revisions to Board Policy 6158 - Independent Study - Policy
Committee

H. First Reading of Revisions to Board Policy 6173 - Homeless Education - Policy
Committee

General Counsel Stinson presented Policy items 10.E., 10.F., 10.G., and 10.H. for the
Board’s information.

12.13.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          6
I. Board Report - Career Technical Education - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White presented the Career Technical Education
Board report with Director Jared Amalong and Coordinator Michelle McIntosh.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Brown stated that the Sacramento Black Chamber of Commerce is recognizing
California State University, Sacramento President Robert S. Nelsen at their Annual
Board Installation and Awards Gala on December 15. Trustee Brown suggested that
Superintendent Gordon write a letter to thank him for his work increasing graduation
rates for the students on behalf of SCOE and the Board.

Superintendent Gordon offered to draft a letter on behalf of SCOE and the Board.

Trustee Fong commented that with the increased rates of COVID, the flu, and RSV, that
he would like to hear district updates on how they are responding if this becomes a
crisis in our county again. He wished the staff and fellow trustees a great new year and
happy holiday.

Trustee Ahola commented that she is super interested in the teacher pathway
conversation and expressed an interest to stay connected with Director Shanine Coats
so that she knows what is happening. She stated that today, she had the honor of
swearing in Ben Avey, the new Trustee for the San Juan USD Area 6.

Trustee Lefkovitz handed out the CCBE Trustee Handbook to fellow trustees that she
received at the CSBA Conference. Ms. Lefkovitz commented that the President signed
the Respect for Marriage Act and expressed how important this is to her. She also
stated that today is Jay’s (her husband’s) last day as a city council representative. She
thanked the SCOE staff and fellow colleagues and wished them a happy holiday.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano stated that she appreciated being able to attend the
graduation at El Centro today and is looking forward to Special Education Site visits and
the Community School graduation tomorrow. Tomorrow is the swearing-in ceremony for
two new Board members for Natomas USD and she is swearing in Noel Mora.

Trustee Davis told a story about contacting a SCOE employee after work hours. She left
a voicemail and received a speedy reply even though it was after hours. She stated how
much she appreciates SCOE’s responsiveness.

B. Board President

President Keefer read a "New Path" from JE at El Centro.

C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution
12.13.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                              7
A. December/January Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. January 17, 2023 and February 2, 2023

14. Adjournment

A. Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, Trustee Fong,
Trustee Davis, Trustee Brown, Trustee Ahola

The meeting adjourned at 8:32 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved: January 17, 2023




12.13.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                    8
