       l          I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   lfiu,~
  ADAM A. HOUSE
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


     Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                           Thursday, September 25, 2025 - 6:00 PM
Ted Wood
                                             Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                   10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4
                                                 Board Room - Second Floor
John Costa                                            Mather, California
Board Vice President                                          &
Division 9
                                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                    Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                     Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                    if Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member            https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Division 1


Grant Goold
Board Member
                       The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D' Elman Clark         Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member           reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member           accommodations:
Division 8
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                            THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2025


►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov. Today's meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
September 29, 2025, and again at 1:00 p.m. on Wednesday, October 1, 2025, on Metro
Cable Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand
at youtube.comlmetrocable 14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the
presiding officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the
interest of time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations.
Speakers' comments will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures,
members of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting
record must be present or have a representative present to read their comments during
the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral
of issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly
approval, declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent
Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion
and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                    Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                             5
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of August 28, 2025.
•
~
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                          THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2025


2.   Adopt Resolution - Approving Purchase of Automatic Chest Compression 1O
     Devices and Maintenance/Service Program
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the purchase of four (4) LUCAS 3,
     v3.1 automatic chest compression devices, accessories, and ProCare maintenance/
     service program from Stryker Sales LLC using the SAWIK Buying Group cooperative
     agreement #2024-06.

3.   Adopt Resolution - Hazardous Materials Response Team Memorandum of             16
     Understanding - Amador County
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the Fire Chief or his designee to
     execute and administer the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between Amador
     County and the District for Hazardous Materials Response Team services.

4.   Revision of Policy - Policy 01.002.04 Workplace Violence Policy                                                    25
     Recommendation: Approve the revisions to the Workplace Violence Policy.

5.   Adopt Resolution - Surplus I.T. Equipment                                                                          31
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the disposal of the District's I.T.
     Division surplus equipment.

ACTION ITEMS:
1.   Purchase Approval - Two (2) Squad Units                                                                            34
     (Shea Pursell, Fleet Manager)
     Recommendation: Approve the Purchase of two (2) Squad Units from Braun
     Northwest, Inc., utilizing HGACBuy contract #AM10-23, Model AM23CB01.

REPORTS:
1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                (President Wood)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -              (Chief House)

            OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell) - No Report

            ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica) - No Report

            SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman) - No Report
3.   SMFD- FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
     522 Vice President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

     A.     Executive Committee - (President Wood)
            Next Meeting: TBD
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave. , Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2025


         8.    Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
               Next Meeting: September 23, 2025, at 9:00 AM
               SRFECC Annex - 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite B, Sacramento

         C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
                Next Meeting: October 23, 2025, at 5:30 PM

         D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
                Next Meeting: October 9, 2025, at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter(s):

1.       CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - PENDING LITIGATION -
         PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9(d)(1)
                Ty Bailey v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                EAMS No. ADJ 18553924 and ADJ 20643634

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •   Regular Board Meeting - October 9, 2025, at 6:00 PM

Posted on September 22, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.



Marni Rittburg~ c,cPM
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
'Im Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility.
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief      ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                               BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                       SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                 Thursday,August28,2025
                               Held at the following locations:
                           10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                      Mather, California
                                               &
                                     Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:03 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold, Rice, Stark, Webber and Wood. Board members absent: Jones, and
  Saylors. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  One public comment was received from Roger Mitchell.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Clark, and carried unanimously by members present
  to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.      Action Summary Minutes
          Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Special Meeting of
          August 7, 2025, and the Regular Board Meeting of August 14, 2025.
          Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.      Request for Exception to Formal Solir;itation Process - Purchase of X-Naut iPad
          Cases and Mounts for Capital Improvement Project
          Recommendation: Authorize a payment of $137,900.00 to X-Naut for iPad cases &
          mounts.
          Action: Approved.

  PRESENTATION ITEMS

  1.      Peer Support, Wellness, Health & Safety PTSDIPTSI
          (Assistant Chief Peck, Captain Manfredi & Licensed Professional Clinical Counselor
          David Sachs)
          Recommendation: Receive the presentation.
          Action: Presentation received.

                                                                                                            PS
ACTION ITEMS
1.        Adopt Resolution - Contract Award - Strategic Planning Services
          (Ted Wood, Board President)
          Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the Board President or his designee to
          negotiate, execute, and administer the contract.
          Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-058.

2.        Adopt Resolution - Sale of Real Property - 9116 Vancouver Drive
          (Admin Analyst Erin Castleberry)
          Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the Fire Chief or his designee to affect
          the sale of the Property to the preferred offeror ($425,000) or next preferred offeror in
          such instance that the fire preferred offeror cancels the contract.
          Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-059.

REPORTS

1.       PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

         No Report

2.       FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT- (Chief House)

Good evening, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public

I met with Folsom City Manager Bryan Whitemyer on August 18th as a follow-up to the July
8th Folsom City Council meeting. We discussed the challenges facing the Folsom Fire
Department and agreed to establish a 2x2 to explore potential solutions.

At our September 11 th Board meeting, I will ask the Board to take action to nominate two of
its members to participate in this 2x2. Additional details will be provided at that time. Mr.
                                                                                            th
Whitemyer will be asking the Folsom City Council to take similar action at their September 9
meeting.

Events:

     •    On August 21, Congressman Bera visited Station 26 to personally present awards to
          Captain Huckaby and Firefighter Edwards for their first-place team victory at the
          California State Fair HERO (Helping Emergency Responders Overcome) Act Chili
          Cookoff.

     •    Metro Fire welcomed the graduating class, FA 25-1, into the Metro Fire family on
          August 22.

     •    Reminder that on September 6, Station 111 's Open House and the 100th anniversary
          celebration of Old Betsy will be held from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

DC Mitchell recognized AC Johnson & our Shift Commanders for covering our region and
also covering for the many members that are currently deployed. Our members have done a
fantastic job stepping up and picking up extra shifts to balance out the resources.

                                                                                                      P6
8.28.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 2 of 5
Shift Commander Spotlight:

AC Johnson, Captain Hayden, and AC Keeley recognized the EMS Division and the crews at
Engine 61, Squad 61 , and Medic 661 for the excellent care they performed in saving a life.
The members were brought up to the podium and received Certificates and EMS Excellence
Coins.
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
No Report

SUPPORT SERVICES - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)
The Fleet team is diligently working on the specifications for apparatus in preparation for
multiple purchases planned for this fiscal year. In addition, interviews for a logistics technician
are currently underway to fill a vacancy created by a recent promotion, with the hope of
having this position filled very soon.

Recently, two new re-mount ambulances arrived, and the radio shop is busy outfitting these
units in preparation for service. To streamline future vehicle up-fitting and efficiently manage
all equipment, a new process is being implemented: once up-fitting equipment arrives, it will
be inventoried, palletized, and stored at logistics. When the vehicle arrives, logistics will ship
the relevant pallet to the Fleet team so that the Radio Shop can begin installation promptly.

In other updates, the warning light up-fitting for the CRRD vehicle has been successfully
completed. The IT department, in collaboration with Facilities, has just finished the video wall
in Training Room 2, making it identical to that of Training Room 1. The next step will be to
upgrade and standardize the video systems in Rooms 201, 321, and 322.

At the request of the Sacramento County Board of Supervisors, a comprehensive 2025
Fireworks After Action Report was completed and submitted on behalf of CRRD. A copy of
this report was also provided to the City of Rancho Cordova and Citrus Heights, and it has
been posted on the Metro website for public access.

From the Facilities department, a number of important updates have been made: the roof at
Station 58 has been replaced (Measure 0), and the vehicle access gate at Station 117 is in
the process of being replaced. Additionally, a new TPO roof has been completed at Station
50 (Measure 0), while Facilities is assisting crews at Stations 54 and 111 with landscaping
updates. The roof at Station 51 has been repaired, and preparations are underway for the
exterior of Station 109, including the AC24 building, to be repainted starting next week.
Lastly, interviews for a new Facilities team member have recently been completed, and we
anticipate introducing a new team member very soon.

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522
   Vice President)
   Captain Scollard apologized to Station 61 for misleading them and the membership into
   thinking that losing their suppression medic was justifiable. Labor Management meetings are
   in the MOU to be done quarterly. These meetings will no longer be monthly because I cannot
   ask members of my team to sacrifice time away from their families to sit in a room and not see
   productivity. It's not fair to mislead members that help is on the way. We had a sour start to
   negotiations yesterday because of the Labor Management meeting leading up to negotiations.


                                                                                                      P7
8.28.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 3 of 5
4.     COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
       All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
       10545 Annstrong Avenue, Mather, Califomia unless otherwise specified.

       A.      Executive Committee - (President Wood)
                No Report
       8.      Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

                No Report

     . C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)

               The Finance & Audit Committee met tonight on three presentations: the
               amended Capital Improvement Program Plan, the FY 2025/26 Final Budget,
               and the Bimonthly Fiscal Report.

       D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)

                No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Goold stated is his proud of Station 61 for their life saving measures. I'm also aware
of another instance where we saved a life through the compassion our crews showed. Thank
you to the men and women that go out and treat our citizens with the respect they deserve
and save a life every day.

Director Costa also recognized the crews and thanked staff for bringing them to the meeting
tonight. Director Costa requested a list of meetings from Chief House after the passionate
report from 522 this evening.

President Wood stated the Firefighters Burn Institute has a great event coming up on
Sunday, September 28, 2025, Hero's, Hops and Hot Rods at Bertolucci's Auto Body Shop,
please go to https://ffburn.org/ffbi-events/heroes-hops-and-hot-rods/ for tickets and to register
your car.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 7:28 p.m. on the following matter(s):

1.     CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - ANTICIPATED LITIGATION -
       Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
       Section 54956.9 (b): One Case

            Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
            Jason Sanchez v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
            General Counsel John Lavra

      Action: Moved ·by Goold, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by members
      present to deny the 910 Claim.




                                                                                                                    P8
8.28.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                        Page 4 of 5
                                                                                         /




2.    CONFERENCE WITH LABOR NEGOTIATOR
      Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6

      A. District Negotiator:     Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
           Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      B. District Negotiator:     Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
           Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                  Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      C. District Negotiator:     Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
           Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                  Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      D. District Negotiator:     Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
           Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                  and Unrepresented Confidential Employees
      E.   District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
           Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                  and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

      F. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: EMT and Paramedic Memorandum of Understanding

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened in open session at 8: 13 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
that the Board met in closed session on two items: 1. 910 Claim of Jason Sanchez, the Board
voted unanimously to deny the claim and refer the matter to the Fire Chief for further
handling. 2. Labor Negotiations for the groups identified, no reportable action was taken in
closed session.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2025-08-28-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:14 p.m.



Ted Wood , Board President                            Robert Webber, Secretary



Marni Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk


                                                                                                  P9
8.28.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 5 of 5
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 L Mather, CA 95655 L Phone (916) 059-4300 h Fax (916) 059.-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief


     DATE:         September 25, 2025

     TO:           Boc!rd of Directors

     SUBJECT:      Resolution Approving the Purchase of Automatic Chest
                   Compression Devices and.Maintenance/Service Program



                                              TOPIC
     Staff seeks the Board of Directors' approv~I of the resolution for the purchase of four (4)
     LUCAS 3, v3.1 automated chest compression devices, accessories, and the ProCare
     maintenance/service program from Stryker Sales LLC (Stryker) using the SAVVIK
     Buyihg Group cooperative ag·r eement #2024-06.

                                             BACKGROUND

     During FY23~24 the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (District) began a project to
     replace outdated chest compression devices that h~ve reached their expected life span.
     The District currently deploys the LUCAS 3, v3.1 chest compression system. The LUCAS
     device has become standardized across the District and District personnel are trained on
     the proper use and care of these devices. Additionally, the District maintains an existing
     inventory of peripheral supplies and accessories for these devices.

                                               DISCUSSION

     In an effort to maxJmize cost savings, the. District Intends to utilize a master cooperative
     purchasing agreement administered by the S.avvik Buying Group through a host public agency.
     The Savvik Buying Grou·p is a non-profit organization that serves the public safety sector by
     contracting for public.safety equipment, supplies, and services through a full and fair competitive
     bidding process, ensuring the best pricing on quality products and services. As a l')lember of the
     $avvik Buying Group, the Dlstript Is able to utilize contracts that ha,ve been awarded through
     this process and obtain the contracted pricing discounts.

     011 August 22, 2024, host public agency Eagle County Health Service Dlstrict issued a Request
     for Bid (RFB) for Medical Equipment (RFB 2024-06) and Stryker was awarded a contract as a
     result of this formal solicitation. Through this cooperative agreement, Stryker offers a 14%
     discount on the LUCAS chest compression system, a 20% discount on LUCAS batteries, and a
     15% qlscount on ProCare. Preventative mai_ntenance and on-site repair are crucial to the
     performance of thes.e automatic chest compression devices. The Stryker ProCare service
     and maintenance program includes all necessary inspections, safety checks, and
     replacements to ensure each device js up to date and functioning properly.




                                    Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                                 P10
Page2



                                                                FISCAL IMPACT

        This procurement is included in the Board approved FY25-26 Capital Improvement Plan
        (CIP). The total cost of four (4) automatic-chest compression devices with accessories and
        ProCare is $120,725.60. This incluq~~ a $5,000.00 credit, as the District will trade in two of
        its older LIFEPAK 12B devices that have reached their expected life span. The total cost
        was included in the EMS Division FY2s.:25 budget.


                                                             RECOMMENDATION

        .Staff recommends that the Board of Directors approves authorize the resolution for the
         purchase of four (4) LUCAS 3, v3.1 automatic chest compres$ion devices, accessories,
         and ProCare maintenance/service program from Stryker Sales LLC using the SAVVIK
         Buying Group cooperative agreement #2024-06.


        Submitted by:                                                        Approved by:

        ,JoM 'RudMkki                                                                 ~
                                                                               Adam Ml!c!1el1 (Sep 19, 202511:~1;17 POT)
        Jon Rudn~ lcl ISt p 19, l OlS \ l:lT:lT POTJ

        Jon Rudnicki                                                          Adam Mitchell
        Interim EMS Assistant Chief                                           Deputy Chief, Operations

        ATTACHMENTS:

        Attachment 1: Resolution
        Attachment 2: !;,tryker Quote




                                                       Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                                           P11
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief

                              RESOLUTION NO. 2025-XXX

    A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
       AUTHORIZE THE PURCHASE OF FOUR (4) AUTOMATED CHEST
    COMPRESSION DEVICES, ACCESSORIES, AND MAINTENANCE/SERVICE
                            PROGRAM

         WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political
  subdivision of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant
  to the State constitution and laws; and

        WHEREAS, the District has standardized the automated chest compression
  devices utilized across the District; and

        WHEREAS, some of these chest compression devices have reached their
  expected life span; and

         WHEREAS, the District desires to procure four (4) LUCAS 3, v3.1 automated chest
   compression devices, accessories, and the ProCare maintenance/service program from
   Stryker Sales LLC (Stryker); and

         WHEREAS, Stryker was awarded a cooperative agreement through the SAWIK
   Buying Group; and

            WHEREAS, the District is a member of the SAWIK Buying Group and is able to
   utilize its cooperative purchasing agreements that have been obtained through a full and
   competitive bidding process; and                                           )

         WHEREAS, the replacement of the District's aµtomatic chest compression
   devices, accessories, and maintenance/service program was approved in the FY 2025-
   26 Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) and Final Budget;

         NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the
   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District does hereby authorize the purchase of four (4) 4)
   LUCAS 3, v3.1 automated chest compression devices, accessories, and the ProCare
   maintenance/service program from Stryker Sales LLC (Stryker) using the SAWIK Buying
   Group cooperative agreement #2024-06, as set forth in the attached Exhibit "A".

           PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 25th day of SEPTEMBER 2025. I,
   MARNI RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE
   DISTRICT HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a
   regular meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll
   call vote:
                              Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                        P12
RESOLUTION NO. 2025-:XXX
Page2


AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:


                               SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                               By: _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                   President, Board of Directors

ATTEST:


Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board




                                                                       P13
.stryker
LUCAS x 4 - SAWIK 2025
Quote Number:          11082111                                                                       Remillo:                               Stryker Sales, LLC
                                                                                                                                             21343 NETWORK PLACE
                                                                                                                                             CHICAGO IL 60673-1213
                                                                                                                                             USA

Version:
Prepared For:          SACRAMENTO METRO FIRE DISTRICT                                                 Rep:                                   Krissy Oliver

                       Attn:                                                                          Email:                                 krissy.oliver@slryker.com

                                                                                                      Phone Number:                          (925) 597-1251

                                                                                                      Mobile:                                (925) 597-1251


Quote Dale:            08/22/2025

Expiration Dale:       08/28/2025

Contract Start:

Contract End:



 Delivery Address                                          Sold To - Shipping                                                            Bill To Account

 Name:             SACRAMENTO METRO FIRE                   Name:                            SACRAMENTO METRO FIRE                        Name:               SACRAMENTO METRO FIRE
                   DISTRICT                                                                 DISTRICT                                                         DISTRICT

 Account#:         20049359                                Account#:                        20048858                                     Account#:           20005620

 Address:          4425 DUDLEY BLVD                        Address:                          3012 GOLD CANAL DR                          Address:            10545 ARMSTRONG AVE STE
                                                                                                                                                             200

                   MCCLELLAN                                                                RANCHO CORDOVA                                                   MATHER

                   California 95652-2500                                                    California 95670-6116                                            California 95655-4102

  Alln:               Eric Haus



 Equipment Products:
    #       Product                 Description                                                                     Qty    List Price               Sell Price              Total

  1.0       99576-000063            LUCAS 3, v3.1 Chest Compression System, Includes                                 4             $20,716.00                 $17,815.76              $71,263.04
                                    Hard Shell Case, Slim Back Plate, (2) Patient Straps,
                                    (1) Stabilization Strap, (2) Suction Cups, (1)
                                    Rechargeable Ballery and Instructions for use With
                                    Each Device

  4.0       11576-000080            LUCAS 3 Ballery - Dark Grey - Rechargeable Li Po                                 8                  $957.00                   $765.60              $6,124.80

                                                                                                                                 Equipment Total:                                     $77,387.84



 Trade In Credit:
 Product                               Description                                                                                 Qty         Credit Ea.                 Total Credit

  TR-LP12B-LUC3                         TRADE-IN-STRYKER LIFEPAK 12B TOWARDS PURCHASE OF                                           2                         -$2,500.00               -$5,000.00
                                        LUCAS 3.1



 ProCare Products:
     #       Product                           Description                                                                Months         Qty    List Price        Sell Price        Total

   2.1        LUCAS-FLD-PROCARE                   LUCAS 3, 3.1 for LUCAS 3, v3.1 Chest Compression System,                  84           4          $1,779.00      $.10,585.05       $42,340.20
                                                  Include s Hard Shell Caso, Slim Back Plate, (2) Patient Straps,
                                                  (1) Stabilization Strap, (2) Suction Cups, (1) Rechargeable
                                                  Batlery and Instructions for use With Each Device




                                                                                     This is not an Invoice                                                                                 P14
stryker
LUCAS x 4 - SAWIK 2025
Quote Number:        11082111                                                                Remit to:                 Stryker Sales, LLC
                                                                                                                       21343 NETWORK PLACE
                                                                                                                       CHICAGO IL 60673-1213
                                                                                                                       USA

Version:
Prepared For:        SACRAMENTO METRO FIRE DISTRICT                                          Rep:                      Krissy Oliver

                     Attn:                                                                   Ema[I:                    krissy.oliver@stryker.com

                                                                                             Phone Number:             (925) 597-1251

                                                                                             Mobile:                   (925) 597-1251


Quote Date:          08/22/2025
Expiration Date:

Contract Start:

Contract End:



    #      Product                    Description                                                         Months                            Sell Price   Total

                                       0310812025 - 03/07/2032

                                       -,!Parts, Labo<. Travel ,'Preventative l.4ainlsnance -IBatlefies
                                       Service

                                                                                                               ProCare Total:                              $42,340.20




 Price Totals:
                                                                                                               Estimated Sales Tax (7.750%):               $5,997.56
                                                                                                                                         --------
                                                                                                               Shipping and Handling:          $0.00
                                                                                                                                      - - --
                                                                                                               Grand Total:                              $120,725.60



Prices: In effect for 30 days                               *STRYKER TO PAY FULL FREIGHT*

Terms: Net 30 Days




Terms and Conditions:
Deal Consummation: This is a quote and not a commitment. This quote is subject to fina l credit, pricing, and documentation
approval. Legal documentation must be signed before your equipment can be delivered. Documentation will be provided upon
completion of our review process and your selection of a payment schedule. Confidentiality Notice: Recipient will not disclose to
any third party the terms of this quote or any other information, including any pricing or discounts, offered to be provided by
Stryker to Recipient in connection with this quote, wit hout Stryker's prior written approva l, except as may be req uested by law
or by lawful order of any applicable government agency. A copy of Stryker Medical's terms and conditions can be found at https://
techweb.stryker.com/Terms Conditions/index.html.




                                                                                        2

                                                                           This is not an Invoice                                                                P15
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief


     DATE:        September 25, 2025

     TO:          Board of Directors

     SUBJECT:     Hazardous Materials Response Team Memorandum of
                  Understanding - Amador County


                                                TOPIC

     Request to adopt a resolution to authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to execute and
     administer the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between Amador County
     (County) and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (District) for Hazardous
     Materials Response Team (HMRT).

                                          BACKGROUND

     The District has provided hazardous materials response services throughout Amador
     County pursuant to an MOU dated July 13, 2021, between the District and the County.
     The term of this MOU was set to expire on July 13, 2022, but was extended to July 13,
     2024, by way of two subsequent one-year extensions.

                                            DISCUSSION

    The County desires to continue contracting with the District for the provIsIon of
    hazardous materials response. Under the proposed MOU, the District will provide the
    services of its HMRT to hazardous materials incidents on a case-by-case basis as
    outlined in the Scope of Services section, Exhibit A, of the MOU. The term of the MOU
    shall be effective on the date of execution and shall continue through June 30, 2026,
    with provisions for additional one-year periods commencing July 1st of each year
    thereafter upon mutual agreement.

                                          FISCAL IMPACT

    The District will provide emergency hazardous materials response by billing based on
    time and materials. The, fee for service is cost neutral to the District's operating budget.
    All associated costs are recovered through a reimbursement clause in the MOU.
    Deployment rates are reviewed and adjusted annually to ensure full recovery, based on
    actual expenditures. This cost-recovery model ensures that the program remains
    financially sustainable without requiring additional appropriations.



                                 Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                              P16
Page2




                                        RECOMMENDATION

        Staff recommends that the Board authorize the Fire Chief or designee to execute and
        administer a Memorandum of Understanding between Amador County and the
        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District for Hazardous Materials Response Team
        services.

        Submitted by:                                    Approved by:


                                                          lw:hn.,-,tditU(Sf) U , 10lSl \4tXIFPIJ


        Bryan Barthel                                    Adam Mitchell
        Battalion Chief, Special Operations              Deputy Chief, Operations
                                          I




        ATTACHMENTS:

        Attachment 1:
        Memorandum of Understanding between Amador County and the Sacramento
        Metropolitan Fire District for Hazardous Materials Response Team

        Attachment 2:
        Resolution Authorizing the Fire Chief or His Designee to Execute and Administer a
        Memorandum of Understanding with Amador County for Hazardous Materials
        Response Team Services




                                   Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                   P17
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
  1            I   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700


~u@'
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                   RESOLUTION NO. 2025-XXX
     A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
      AUTHORIZING THE FIRE CHIEF OR HIS DESIGNEE TO EXECUTE AND
   ADMINISTER A MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING WITH AMADOR COUNTY
          FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RESPONSE TEAM SERVICES

          WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political subdivision
  of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant to the Constitution
  and laws of the State; and

         WHEREAS, the Memorandum of Understanding ("MOU") between the District and
  Amador County ("County") to provide Hazardous Materials Response Team ("HMRT") services
  for the timely response and proper management of incidents involving the intentional or
  unintentional release of hazardous materials expired on July 13, 2024; and

          WHEREAS, the County desires to continue contracting with the District for hazardous
   materials response services on a case-by-case basis; and

           WHEREAS, the District and the County have negotiated a new MOU for HRMT services,
   effective on the date of execution and shall continue through June 30, 2026, with provisions for
   additional one-year periods commencing July 1st of each year thereafter upon mutual agreement.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the Sacramento
   Metropolitan Fire District does hereby authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to execute and
   administer the MOU between the District and the County for HRMT services.

         PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 25th day of September 2025. I, MARNI
   RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT HEREBY
   CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting of the
   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

   AYES:
   NOES:
   ABSENT:
   ABSTAIN:
                                         SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                         By: _ __ __ _ _ _ _ __ _
                                            President, Board of Directors
   ATTEST:


   Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
   Clerk of the Board
   Attachment: Memorandum of Understanding between Amador County and the Sacramento
               Metropolitan Fire District for Hazardous Materials Response Team
                               Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                         P18
                                    MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
                                           BY AND BETWEEN
                                        AMADOR COUNTY AND
                                 SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT

This MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (hereinafter "MOU"), entered Into on September 1, 2025, by and
between the County of Amador (hereinafter "County") and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (hereinafter
"Metro Fire"). This MOU establishes the response criteria for the use of the Metro Fire Type 1 Hazardous Material
Response Team (hereinafter "HMRT").

                                                    RECITALS

WHEREAS, the timely response to and proper management of incidents involving the intentional or unintentional
release of hazardous materials are critical to the protection of human health and the environment; and

WHEREAS, the proper management and control of responses to emergency incidents Involving hazardous
materials requires highly specialized training, equipment, supplies, communications and other resources in order
to provide adequate protection for the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel; and

WHEREAS, Metro Fire has a HMRT, with specialized apparatus, equipment, and capabilities; and

WHEREAS, the cost of establishing and maintaining a hazardous materials response team capability is very costly
and occurrence of emergency response Incidents requiring the specialized expertise of a hazardous materials
response team has increased significantly that County has determined that it would be more economical, feasible,
and appropriate to utilize the services of Metro Fire's HMRT rather than to develop and maintain its own; and

WHEREAS, Metro Fire has offered, subject to consideration, to provide the services of its HMRT to the County
under the provisions of this MOU and separate mutual aid agreements;

WHEREAS, the County and Metro Fire desire to enter into this MOU on the terms and conditions set forth herein.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises hereinafter set forth, the County and Metro Fire agree
as follows:

1. SCOPE OF SERVICES
   Metro Fire shall provide service in the amount, type and manner described In Exhibit A, attached hereto and
   incorporated herein by this reference.

2. PAVM.ENT FOR SERVICES
   The County shall reimburse M!;!tro Fire for time and materials. Reimbursement rates and charges are provided
   in Exhibit B, attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference. This hourly rate covers the response
   of a Type 1 Engine, a Type 1 Hazardous Materials unit, and a Battalion Chief. A total of seven Hazardous
   Materials Specialists will respond with the assigned resources. M etro Fire shall calculate time on a portal-to-
   portal basis. Metro Fire will bill for expended materials at replacement cost.

   The reimbursement rates and charges provided in Exhibit B will be adjusted annually to reflect actual costs.
   Metro Fire shall deliver notice of said adjustments to County on or before June 1'1 of each year to the address
   listed in Section 4 below.




                                                                                                                      P19
     Metro Fire shall invoice the Amador County Environmental Health Department. Such invoice wlll, in turn, be
     directed to the "responsible party" for the hazardous materials incident for reimbursement to the County.

     The County will provide payment no later than ninety (90) days from receipt of Metro Fire's invoice. Metro
     Fire intends to allow the County to seek reimbursement from the responsible party during the 90 days before
     making payment to Metro Fire. Payment is due from the County to Metro Fire within this period, regardless
     of whether the County secures reimbursement from the "responsible party".

3. TERM
     The term of this MOU shall be effective and commence on the date of execution and shall end on June 30,
     2026. Metro Fire and the County may mutually agree to extend the term of this MOU, in writing, by additional
     one-year periods commencing July 1st of each year thereafter.

     This MOU may be cancelled by either party by providing 30 days' prior written notice to the other party, or
     may be amended at any time by written mutual consent of the parties involved.

4.   NOTICE
     Any notice, demand, request, consent, or approval that either party hereto may or is required to give the
     other pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be either personally delivered or sent by certified
     mail-return receipt requested, addressed as follows:

     To County:                                          To Metro Fire:
     General Services Administration Director            Battalion Chief of Special Operations
     12200-B Airport Rd                                  10545 Armstrohg Ave. Suite 200
     Jackson, CA 95642                                   Sacramento, CA 95655

5.   LIMITATIONS
     Nothing in this Agreement will be interpreted to conflict with, or be Inconsistent with, any federal or state
     statute, regulation, or other provision of law applicable to the County or Metro Fire. Furthermore, this MOU
     does not constitute a delegation of any authority by either party to the other.

6.   EMPLOYMENT POLICY
     It is agreed that employees of the parties to this MOU will at all times be subject only to the laws, regulations,
     and rules governing their employment, regardless of agency, and will not be entitled to compensation or other
     benefits of any kind other than specifically provided by the terms of their employment.

7.   INDEMNIFICATION
     To the fullest exte-nt permitted by law, each party hereto (hereafter "Indemnifying Party") will indemnify,
     defend, and hold harmless the other parties, and their respective officers, agents, and employees, from and
     against any and all loses, costs, damages, expenses, claims, suits, demands, or liability of any kind or character,
     including but not limited to reasonable attorney fees, to the extent arising from any negligent, reckless, or
     intentional act or omission of the Indemnifying Party, its officers, volunteers, agents or employees, which
     occurs in the performance of, or otherwise in connection with this MOU.

     It is the intention of the parties that where fault is determined to have been contributory, principles of
     comparative fault will be followed and each party will bear the proportionate cost of any damage attributable
     to the fault of that party, its officers, directors, agents, employees, subcontractors, and volunteers.

     The indemnity provisions of this MOU will survive the termination of this MOU.




                                                                                                                           P20
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this MOU.

COUNTY OF AMADOR                                          SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT



                          upervisors                      Adam A. House, Fire Chief

       ~ \ q !'2-<.C
Date                                                      Date



APPROVED AS TO LEGAL FORM


Amadri&           unsel


Date




Attachments:   Exhibit A- Scope of Services
               Exhibit B - Payment for Services




                                                                                                  P21
                                                  EXHIBIT A
                                  to MOU by and between Amador County an d
                                    the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

SCOPE OF SERVICES

1. The services to be provided by Metro Fire's Hazardous Materials Response Team (HMRT) to the County are
   limited to activities related to hazard categorization, site safety planning, containment, site mitigation, and
   other on-scene management activities designed to limit the spread and environmental contamination of
   hazardous materials substances releases. Activities may include the following:

        a.   Assessing the scene and classifying the level of incident, determining need for additional personal or
             environmental protective measures that may be required without further delay, and determining the.
             possible need for any additional assistance not already requested;

        b.   Providing rescue to victims if necessary, and if possible, without exposing emergency response
             personnel to unreasonable life-threatening risks;

        c.   Identifying types and quantities of any hazardous materials involved; determining the hazards they
             pose to life, environment, and property; and providing advice regarding appropriate and necessary
             measures to mitigate, contain, and suppress the emergency hazardous materials incident;

       d. Providing advice in the extinguishment of any fires that may exist or pose a threat, if such
          extinguishment is considered to be essential by the Incident Commander, and in the selection of
          extinguishing agents to be utilized and the methods of application;

       e..- Providing advice and assistance for the suppression and containment of the hazardous materials
            involved in the incident, including locating necessary special supplies and taking measures such as
            temporary diking, diverting, channeling, plugging, removal of fuel, and the elimination of ignition
            sources;

       f.    Providing advice and assistance in the establishment of a Field Command Post in an appropriate and
             safe location;

       g.    Providing advice and assistance in the establishment of a Resource Pool Staging Area in an appropriate
             and safe location;

       h.    Providing advice and assistance in the determination and establishment of any restricted (hot) or
             limited access (warm) zones, and any areas that may need to be evaluated;

       i.    Providing technical coordination with any private sector resources that may be involved in response
             to the emergency hazardous materials incident(s);

       j.    Providing advice and assistance to County departments as may be requested for the purpose of
             declaring a health emergency or a state of emergency, coordinating emergency response activities of
             County departments and special districts, and clean-up and restoration of the affected site to normal
             daily use;

       k.    Providing technical information to the Incident Commander for dissemination to the public through
             the facilities of the Emergency Broadcast System or directly to news media regarding the emergency
             hazardous materials incident; and




                                                                                                                      P22
2. The HMRT shall respond, when available, to requests for assistance made by the County through the 911
   system, through either the Amador County Sheriff's Office Dispatch or the Cal Fire Communications Center in
   El Dorado County. The on-scene Incident Commander (IC) having jurisdiction shall be authorized to request
   assistance, and the request shall incluae the following information:

       a.   Location of the incident
       b.   Contact information for the Incident Commander
       c.   Name of person to whom the team Is to report
       d.   Nature of the incident
       e.   Service(s) requested
       f.   Any trained emergency response personnel and equipment on scene that are available to assist the
            HMRT.

3. Upon receipt of a request for assistance, Metro Fire's on-duty Shift Commander, Battalion Chief, Haz Mat
   Coordinator, or HMRT shall contact the Incident Commander having jurisdiction to confirm the anticipated
   level of response required, and to provide an estimated time of arrival to the scene.

4. Immediately upon arrival at the scene of the emergency hazardous materials incident, the HMRT Captain shall
   report to the Incident Commander having jurisdiction and shall establish the Haz•Mat Group as Identified in
   the Unified C.o mmand System.

5. The County is responsible for providing Metro Fire with the State Office of Emergency Services (OES) incident
   control number. The Amador County Sheriff's Office of Emergency Services, representative of Amador County
   Environmental Health, the Incident Commander, or the facility initiating the incident, depending on the
   specific case, will make the notification to the State Office of Emergency Services (OES) Warning Center for
   hazardous material incidents. The Warning Center will issue a control number for the incident.

6. A County representative will be responsible for having hazardous waste manifests or other
   documentation/authorizations executed, which may result from the deployment of HMRT.

7. Metro Fire must maintain at a minimum one (1) equivalent of a "Type 1" Hazardous Materials Response
   Team (HMRT) as defined by the California State Office of Emergency Services and shall be responsible for
   the proper training, certification, and composition of its HRMT to meet such requirements.




                                                                                                                   P23
                                             EXHIBIT B
                             to MOU by and between Amador County and
                             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

PAYMENT FOR SERVICES

 Metro Fire Hazardous Materials RespQ.nse Team Fee Schedule:
 HM109                              $226.24/Hr.
 E109                               $176.07/Hr~
 Batfalion Chief                    $84.56/Hr.
 Total:-   -   .                    -$486.-87/Hr.


The HMRT hourly rate shall be adjusted for annual cost escalation every March 1 as described in Section 2 of this
MOU.




                                                                                                                    P24
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) ·859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3702


Adam A. House
  Fire Chief

  DATE:             September 25, 2025

  TO:               Board of Directors

  SUBJECT:          Revision of B~ard Policy
                    Policy 01 .002.04 - Workplace Violence Policy


                                                TOPIC

  Adopt the proposed changes to the current 01.002.04 Workplace Violence Policy.

                                             DISCUSSION

  Atta_ched is the edited Workplace Violence Policy 01.002.04 that was reviewed by tne Policy
  Committee )on September 11, 2025. The Workplace· Violence Policy establishes clear
  responsibilities in reporting ptocesses and tespohse guidelines. The purpose of the
  policy is to prevent and reduce violent incidents in the workplace which is achieved
  through improved employee awareness, violent incident identification and reporting,
  tracking violent inciqents, and correctiv~ actions when hazards are recognized. Edits to
  the policy include language that is compliant with Cal/OSHA and Senate Bill 553 which
  requires California workplaces to have a plan in place to address the rising episodes of
  violence occurring at the worksite. This law expands the District's Injury and Illness
  Prevention Program.

  This District strictly prohibits .all forms of workplace violence, including threats,
  intimidation, harassment, or physical acts of harm, whether committed by employees,
  clients, vishors, or others.                      •

                                         RECOMMENDATION

 Recomm.end the Bo;:ird of D1rectors 9 pprove the r~visions to the Workplace Viol~nce Policy.

 Sub~

                         ~
                                                    _Ap
                                                      -p_r_ee
                                                        7A   d,._By~d
                                                                    - --:
                                                                        - -=-----_-___·'-=---
  Mells'a Ma~dux                                    J~        ic9        •
  Chief Human Resources Officer                     Deputy Chief of Administration




                                Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                                P25
             Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                              BOARD POLICY
POLICY           Workplace Violence Policy                                            OVERSIGHT: Administration                               - { Formatted Table

TITLE:
POLICY
NUMBER:
                 01 .002.0_.1,' ----   --'E"'-F_,_F=E-=-
                                                     C.:..
                                                        Tl~V=E....:0..::3c:..:
                                                     DATE:
                                                                          /0..:2.:..:
                                                                                 /2"' 0~
                                                                                       09"----=R
                                                                                               ..:.:Eo,;V:...:.l=-
                                                                                               DATE:
                                                                                                                EW:...c-_----=.
                                                                                                                              0;:c:.
                                                                                                                               9/_,_11-"-/::c
                                                                                                                                          20:.::2:.::,            !
                                                                                                                                                  §, __ -a:::___ Deleted: 3
                                                                                                                                                           ....____ Deleted: 24/2017



 Background
 The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District {District) is committed to maintaining a safe
 workplace free from violence, threats. intimidation, and harassment for all employees.
 Workplace violence is a serious concern that affects the safety, health, and wellbeing of
 our employees and visitors. Any form of violence or threatening behavior will not be
 tolerated. Compliance with Cal/OSHA and Senate Bill 553 (SB 553) requires California
 workplaces to have a plan in place to address the rising episodes of violence occurring
  at the worksite. This law expands the District's Injury and Illness Prevention Program
  obliaations
                                                                                                                                                                  Deleted: An essential goal of the Sacramento Melropolitan
 -                                                                                                                                                   -- Fire District (District) is lo maintain a safe and cooifortable
  Pwpose                                                                                                                                                          workplace for all employees. V iolence in the worl<place poses
                                                                                                                                                                  a very serious threat lo the safely, heallh and wellbeing of our
                                                                                                                                                                  employees and visitors. II also poses a risk of disrupting our
  The purpose of this policy is to prevent and reduce violent incidents in the workplace.                                                                         ability to effectively carry out our mission. The District has
  This is achieved through improved employee awareness. violent incident identification                                                                           implemented this policy to addres s violent acts, threats (direct
                                                                                                                                                                  or implied), unlawful harassment, verbal or physical abuse,
  and reporting, tracking violent incidents, and corrective actions when hazards are                                                                              stalking, Intimidation, and other disruptive behavior. II is
  recognized. The Workplace Violence Policy in coordination with the Workplace Violence                                                                           further recognized that workplace violence can result from
  Prevention Plan <WVPP) ,!!Stablish clear responsibilities, reporting processes, and                                                                             non-work-related situations, such as domestic violence or
                                                                                                                                                                  ·road rage.• Wlatever the cause or whomever the perpetrator,
  resnonse nuidelinea..                                                                   \                                                                       workplace violence is unacceptable and will not be tolerated.
                                                                                                                                                     \            The best prevention comes from identifying any problems
                                                                                                                                                        \ early, and dealing with them quickly.\l
  Scope                                                                                                                                                 ~ - Deleted: provide
  This policy applies to all District employees. This includes all full-time, part-time,                                                        ♦\       \        Deleted : written guidance

  temporary employees, and Board Members. This policy covers..§11 District~ orksite                                                              \\._
                                                                                                                                                                  Deleted: regarding the nature of workplace violence, and
                                                                                                                                                                  direction on the action to be taken should tt occur....
  locations                                                                                                                                        '\        -.
                                                                                                                                                 \ ' \.\ Formatted: Left
                                                                                                                                                     \ \' \ '\ Deleted: and/or individuals in any
  Definitions                                                                                                                                            \, \
                                                                                                                                                                  Deleted: workplace or
                                                                                                                                                             \
  1.      .Threat of Violence: Any verbal or written statement. including, but not limited to,           Deleted: .
           texts. ~lectronic m~ssages. social media messa9es. or other ~nline posts. or any ---- --. . " Deleted: Credible
           behavioral or physical conduct. that conveys an intent. or that Is reasonably
           perceived to convey an intent. to cause physical harm or to place someone in
           fear of physical harm, and that serves no legitimate purpose. (Does not include
           lawful acts of self-defense or defense of others)                                     _.- Deleted: Defined under Section 646.9 of the California Penal
           =="-"'='-=-==-=~=-=--=='-'="--"-'-"'="-=~- - - - -- - -- -- -~~ Code as a knowing and wil~ul statement or course of conduct
                                                                                                                                                                  that would place a reasonable person in fear for his or her
  2.      Workplace or Worksite: Any location. either permanent or temporary, where an                                                                            safely, or the safely of his or her immediate family, and lhal
                                                                                                                                                                  serves no legilimale purpose.\l
          employee performs any work-related activity. This includes, but is not limited to.
          District buildings and surrounding perimeters (including driveways and parking
          areas), vehicles and equipment, nd an form of conve ance of its em lo ees                                                                                   Deleted: allernate work locations,

          during work related activities or while traveling to or from work related
          assignments. This policy excludes employees teleworking from a location of the
          employee's choice, which is not under the control of the District.


                                                                                                                               1jPage




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P2 6
                                                                        Workplace Violence
                                                                                  01.002.0.1,____----{ Deleted: 3

                                                                                  09/11/2025.__{~D
                                                                                                 =c=le=te
                                                                                                        =d=: =17==========================~


_3_
  . __Workplace Violence: Any act of violence or threat of violence that occurs in a
      place of employment. The threat or use of physical force directed at an
      employee with a high likelihood of causing injury, or caused an injury,
      psychological trauma or stress. An incident involving the threat or use of a
      firearm or dangerous weapon. Violence may include not only acts of violence
      but also threats to commit violence or do harm. Workplace violence includes any
      conduct. verbal or physical, in-person or virtual, which cause another to
      reasonably fear for their own personal safety or that of their immediate family.
      The State of California recognizes the following four separate categories of
      worknlace violence as defined bv Labor Code Section 6401.9~                                _.- Deleted: Under this policy inciudes, but Is not limited to: any
                                                                                                       act of physical violence, threats of physical violence,
                                                                                                       harassment, intimidation, or other threatening or disruptive
       a. Type 1 Violence: (Criminal Intent) Violence by strangers. Workplace violence                 behavior that occurs at the worksite. Workplace violence can
          committed by a person who has no legitimate business at the worksite, and                    affect or involve both employees and visitors. ii can occur for
          includes violent acts by
                                 -
                                   anyone
                                      -
                                          who enters the workplace
                                                              -
                                                                    or approaches
                                                                        --
                                                                                                       various reasons, and can be triggered by both work related
                                                                                                       and non-work related silualions. Worl<place violence can be
          workers with the intent to commit a crime.                                                   caused by an abusive employee, a family member, or a
                                                                                                       visitor....
       b. Type 2 Violence: (Customer/Client) Violence by customers/clients.                         \l - - - - -t - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 .
          Workplace violence directed at employees by customers. clients. patients.                    Formatted: US Paragraph, No bullets or numbering, Tab
                -                             -   -    -            .        •-         •              stops: Not at 0.5"
           students, inmates or visitors.
       c. Type 3 Violence: (Co-Worker) Violence by current or past coworkers.
          Workplace violence against an employee by a present or former employee,
          supervisor or manager.
       d. Type 4 Violence: (Personal Relationship) Violence by someone with
          personal relations with an employee. Workplace violence committed in the
          workplace by a person who does not work there, but has or is known to have
          had a personal relationship with an employee.
                                                                                             ◄- Formatted: I ndent: Left: 0.5", No bullets or numbering

4.     .l/Vorkplace Violence Prevention Plan: A written plan required by Cal/OSHA                - - Deleted: ll
        that outlines procedures and responsibilities for preventing and responding to               <#>Unlawful Violence: Defined under Seciion 646.9 of the
                                                                                                     California Penal Code as any assault, balle,y, or stalking, but
        workplace violence.                                                                          shall not include lawful acts of se~-defense or defense of
                                                                                                     others.\l
                                                                                                     ll
Policy
1.     The District strictly prohibits all forms of workplace violence, including threats,
       intimidation. harassment. or physical acts of harm. whether committed by
       employees, clients, visitors. or others. Any such behavior will be treated
       seriously and may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination
       and potential legal action. ,._._ __ __ _ _______ __ _ __________.. Deleted: Threats, threatening behavior, acis of violence, or
                                                                                                       any related conduct that disrupts anothe(s worl< perfonnance
                                                                                                       or the organization's ability to execute its mission is
2.     The District is committed to maintaining a workplace that is free from violence                 considered workplace violence and it will not be tolera ted....
       and hazards. The District maintains a written Workplace Violence Prevention
       Plan (WVPP) that complies with all requirements set forth by Cal/OSHA and SB
       553, including hazard identification, employee training, and response procedures.               Formatted: English (United States)
                                                                                                       Formatted: List Paragraph, Left, No bullets or numbering
3.     All employees are required to report any incidents. threats, or concerns of
       workplace violence immediately to the Chief Human Resources Officer. All



                                                                                  2IPage




                                                                                                                                                         P27
                                                                                                                                                  Workplace Violence
                                                                                                                                                                     01.002 .01.._-----{ Deleted: 3
                                                                                                                                                                   09/ 11 /2 02L - ( ~=
                                                                                                                                                                                      D :e1:e :te:d: 1:1: : : :: :: :: : : : : : : : : :: : :: : :: : : ~

               reports will be taken seriously and investigated promptly. thoroughly. and
               impartially without fear of retaliation.,.__________________ ~                                                                                                                                     Formatted: English (United States)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Formatted: Ust Paragraph, Left, No bullets or numbering
-'4.,_._ __,=m=l,..,o'-'-"e"'e"'s'-h"'a"'v-'-'e"-'-th'-'e"--'ri.,,..,h,.,tc,:t,.,o:....:..,re=o'-'rt-'--'w-'-'o'-r'.,,,k=la..:ce=_.v.,,io'le=n,.ce"'
                                                                                                                                          -'        -'w"'i"'th.,,,o~u=-t,._f,..,e,.,a,,_r_,o"'f-r,..,e,.,t,.a"'lia~t"'io"'n'-!.____ ----i Del eted: <#>Violent acts oocurring within the workplace
           or adverse action. Retaliation against anyone who. in good faith, reports a                                                                                                                                                    which have an adverse impact on the ability of an employee to
            threat. participates in an investigation. or exercises any rights under this policy is                                                                                                                                        perform hisnier assigned duties and responsibilities is a
            strictl rohibited and will not be tolerated                                                                                                                                                                                   violation of this policy, and will subjectthe offender to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  disciplinary action, up to, and including lermination.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <#>II is the responsibility of all employees to take appropriate
5.              This policy and the District's WVPP will be reviewed annually and updated as                                                                                                                      measures to prevent workplace violence, including reporting
                needed to ensure ongoing compliance with Cal/OSHA regulations. Input from                                                                                                                         any observed act of workplace violence.11
                employees and designated representatives will be solicited to help improve the                                                                                                                    11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <#>If the investigation of the workplace violence results in a
                plan and address emerging risks.                                                                                                                                                                  determination tha t this policy has been violated, appropriate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  disciplinary action must be taken, and notification will be made




                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~
Procedures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  [:e:~l::::;::;~::e:n:::~::;~:: : : : :I::: 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  which undermine the execution of regular duties, the
_,_1,_
   .  -~A_,_,l,_I.District employees are expected to treat he ublic o-workers subordinates                                                                                                                        effectiveness of those duties, or negatively impacts the
            and superiors with courtesy and respect. All threats of violence and acts of                                                                                                      ,.                  reputation of the District, is also a violation of this policy an
           work lace violenc mus be re orted to he Chief Human Resources Officer                                                                                                                   ·,             Formatted: English (United States)
           within 24 hours from time of knowled e of incident                                                                                                                                 . \                 Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.5", No bullets or numbering
                                                                                                                                                                                               \                •, Deleted: citizens, members of
                a. Reporting Workplace Violence                                                                                                                                                         \ \>-- - - --.;....-- - - - - - - -- - --<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Deleted: customers,
                       i.      Employee(s) that have been a victim of workplace violence must contact                                                                                                             Deleted: Disagreements or disputes that could lead to
                               the Chief Human Resources Officer to report the violent incident
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Deleted: are to
                               immediately.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Deleted: the employee's Immediate supervisor within thel
                               A. Chief Human Resources Officer Phone Number (916) 859-4533                                                                                                                       Deleted: . Employees who become victims of workplace
                                B. Chief Human Resources Officer Email: hr@metrofire.ca.gov                                                                                                                       Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.5", No bullets or numbering

                      ii.      Employees shall report any incidents of threats or acts of physical                                                                                                                Formatted: Space After: 6 pt
                               violence to the Chief Human Resources Officer.                                                                                                                                     Formatted

                      iii.      The employee and the Chief Human Resources Officer will notify the
                                employee's supervisor/manager of any incidents of threats or acts of                                                                                                              Formatted




                                                                                                                                                                                         .i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C
                                physical violence. unless the supervisor/manager is the aggressor.                                                                                                          i Deleted: 11
                     iv.        Em11loyees can report violence concerns anonymously to the District's                                                                                                             Deleted: The supervisor or manager to whom a complaintC
                                Confidential Employee Complaint Phoneline:
                               A.        Phone Number (916) 202-1835                                                                                                                     .              ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Deleted: in coordination with the Human Resources Division
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Deleted: immediately

.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Deleted: initiate

 2.             Jhe Chief Human Resources Officer .shall investioate all threats of violence and 1;/,,, Deleted: and conduct a thorough invesligalion as approprC
                acts of violence and similar disruntive behavior in a timelv manner and take the      ' Deleted: T
                necessa[Y actions to reduce workplace violence in accordance with District ,'/ Deleted: , after consultation and review by the
                policy. procedure. and ..1rnplicable laws.                                        / ,'/ Deleted: Manager,
                                                                                                                                                                                              11/ Deleted: shall make the determination if
 3.             Following review by Jhe Fire Chief ,end Chief Human Resources ,Qfficer. a /Y '
                determination will be made on whether Jhe matter should be reported to 9,, law ~ Deleted: be referred to a duly authorized
                                                                                                , Delet ed: The Human Resources Manager or designee shC
                enforcement agency.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Deleted: ing
 4.             The Chief Human Resources Officer or desiqnee will investigate· and document
                all comolaints includino· the namP. of the reoortino emolovee date time and
                                                                                                                                                                                            ;i                    Deleted: s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Deleted: making the complaint and the alleged perpetrator,


                                                                                                                                                                     3 1Page




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P2 8
                                                                                                                Workplace Violence
                                                                                                                        01.002.01...---{ Deleted: 3
                                                                                                                             09/11/202L - j ~D
                                                                                                                                             =e=le=t=ed===1=7===========================~
            location of the incident, workplace violence type or types involved (i.e. Type I.
            Type II. etc.). detailed description of the incident. information about the
            perpetrator of the incident. type of violent incident (i.e. physical attack. attack with
            a weapon. sexual ass~ult. _etc), and acti~n taken to prevent further harm to               Deleted: when and where the incident occurred, the
            others. A copy of the JnvesligatIon report.will be held by the Human Resources ~ circumstances Involved, and names and statements of any
            Division.                                                                                ~ witnesses (statements should be in writing and signed by the
                                                                                                                                                  \          witnesses if possible) ...

.,,5"-.------'A_.,,l,1
                     ._-"workplace violence hazard identification. evaluation and correction: training,                                               '\ >-D;..e1_e;t..e_d:_i_nv_e_s1.::ig;..a1_ory.:....- - - - - - - - - - - <
                incident logs. and workplace violence incident investigations required by Labor       • Deleted: and resolution of the complaint must be filed with
                Code section 6401 .9(f) and SB 553 are held by the Human Resources Division.           >,1            1b_e_h-eld_b.:,Y_th_e_ __ _______--<
                                                                                                             "'';1..iI;..
                                                                                                         ;..h;..
                                                                                                  ◄- Formatted: List Paragraph, Left, No bullets or numbering,
                                                                                                        Tab stops: Not at 0.5" + 1•
6.          If the investigation confirms that an act of violence occurred in violation of policy,
            the Chief Human Resources Officer shall initiate appropriate disciplinary action, -------- Deleted: If, as aresult of the investigation, ~ isdetermined
                                                                                                                                                             that an emp!oyee has committed an act of violence in violation
                                                                                                                                                                       of the policy, the Human Resources Manager should initiate a
7.           Failure of a supervisor or manager to Jeport workplace violence to Jhe Chief                                                                              pre-<lisciplinary and/or p,e-tennination hearing in aCCOfdance
             Human Resources Officer, ,pr failure of the Chief Human Resources ,Officer or ' ~ with the policy and p,ocedures for taking disciplinary action....
             designee to initiate an investigalion_jn a limelv manner is a nolicv violation .and \ " . \-D                                                             _e_1e_te_d_:_n°_tify              ~ --------------<.
             may result in discinlinarv action.                                                                                                                :\\ Deleted: their chain of command
                                                                                                                                                             \ 1, \ Deleted: of acomplaint ofviolence in a trnely manner,




                                                                                                                                                 I
8.          '-"-'-'---"l<::!'.-""'-'-'--'= '°--'-==""-':..:..__:"-"-':.:JJc=-.".:..:..::"--'--'= --..::..:.;~='--':-'-''-'-'-'=-=,:--:::.:....s:'-"~ = "--"--, 1 ~
            An         assault          that  results in       iniurv_     or involves              the    use    or     threat       of   .a    weapon.    _    \ ,\ Deleted: Manager
             including Jirearms air quns or anv other item caDable of DroDellinQ a projectile                                                           '~=----...;.::-------- -----<          8
             knives, brass knuckles, .exolosives or anv nbiect used as a weaoon must be • \\>.;,D.;,                                                                      e;,,;
                                                                                                                                                                              ie;..
                                                                                                                                                                                  te;,,;d,;.:- - - - -- - -- - - - - - - ~
             reported immediately to a Jaw enforcement aoencv. A coDv of the reoort;nust be ~ \\_~ D                                                                                      - - ----------<
                                                                                                                                                                              le;,;,te;,;;d;..:.;,1h;,;,8 .;,
                                                                                                                                                                        ;.;;e;;,;                          co;,;;m    1a;..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .:.P;;,; in,;.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t
             filed with the Human Resources Division.                                                                                                                  Deleted: of this policy,
                                                                                                                                                                  \ Deleted: lead
9.           All employees are responsible for maintaininn the securitv of their .worksnace and , \\ Deleted: to
             must report suspicious or unusual behavior to managemenUmmediately_                                                                                4 \1 ,> -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - <
                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                \~\\   Deleted: A

Reference-s- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - ,1\ \!~ ::::: :~

                                                                                                                                                         1     ~De.;,;l.;,  ------------~-<
                                                                                                                                                                            et;,,;e.;,
                                                                                                                                                                                    d:;.:(~s);,.
_,_1.,___.......:::C-=a=lifornia Code of Regulations, Title 8. Section 3203. and Section 3343                                                                 ~D                  ;;,;d;;.:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-<
                                                                                                                                                                   ;;.;e;;;le;,;;te



                                                                                                                                                      i
                                                                                                                                                         ~I Deleted: blackjacks,                                      ,
.,,_
2.,___ .......:::C.,.a=lifornia Labor Code Section 6401 .7 and 6401 .9.                                                                               ! !\ Deleted: incendiary/explosive devices, including the use of
                                                                                                                                                      r \I,,>any
                                                                                                                                                      J,1n,         -.:.......;....;._....;
                                                                                                                                                                             tool, implemenl,___           ...;._______-<
                                                                                                                                                                                                 device or object
.,,3.._--"'C""ale.cifornia Senate Bill 553                                                                                                             Hit Deleted: are lo
                                                                                                                                                       I\,
                                                                                                                                                      ,it ------=~-- -------=-<
                                                                                                                                                                   Deleted: a duly authorized
~4~.----'D=i=s=trict Policy - Injury Illness and Prevention Policy and Program                                                                        ~  ,·1\ll) ,
                                                                                                                                                                   Deleted: related to the incident

""5""".----'D=i""s=trict Policy - Non-Retaliation Policy
                                                                                                                                                       ri~Deleted: securing
                                                                                                                                                        ~~I
                                                                                                                                                        ,i1'>..;..;.;,;;,;.;,...;..
                                                                                                                                                              Deleted: own          ..;.._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                  --<
=6.,_
   .   - --=D"--'i-st,,.rict
                   =-        Policy - Rules and Regulations Policy                                                                                  [ Deleted: place
                                                                                                                                                      Deleted: for reporting any unusual behavior
.,_
 7 .,__.--=D-=is=trict - Safety Team Policy                                                                                                         ( Deleted: to
                                                                                                                                                      Deleted: management.
"'8.,_._ __,D"--'i-=-st,,.rict - Workplace Harassment Policy                                                                                          Deleted: <#>Management is responsiblefor informing
                                                                                                                                              • ""    employees under their supervision of District Worl<place
"'9.,_- --'W'-'--"'o:..:.rkplace Violence Prevention Plan - Documents App                                                                         ·". Violence policies.'if
                                                                                                                                                      Formatted: List Paragraph, Left, No bullets or numbering

                                                                                                                              4IPage




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P29
                                    Workplace Violence
                                            01 .002 .0L , - -{ Deleted: 3

                                           09/11/2025,___i~D
                                                           =e=le=te=d=: =17= =========================~

10.   522 MOUs. Article 40 Safety
                                                               Deleted: <#>Cal~ornia Code of Civil Procedure Section
                                                               527.8. Service of Workplace Proleclivo Orders by Law
                                                               Enforcement Officers (AB 429). AB 429 amended in 2006 the
                                                               \o\'orkplace Violence Safety Act (Code of Civil Procedure
                                                               section 527.8)U
                                                               11
                                                               <#>California Penal Code Seclion 646.9U
                                                               11
                                                               <#>Preventing Workplace Violence, Handbook of !he
                                                               American Federation of Stale, County and Municipal
                                                               Employeesl1




                                            5 IP age




                                                                                                            P30
                          Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l           I
                           10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

lfiu,~
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief




        DATE:             September 25th , 2025

        TO:               Board of Directors

        SUBJECT:          Surplus Equipment



                                                         TOPIC


                                 Disposal of the District's IT capital asset equipment.


                                                   FISCAL IMPACT

                                    There will not be a fiscal impact to the District.

                                                 RECOMMENDATION

                   Staff recommends the Board of Director's approve the disposal of tt,e District's
                                        I.T. Divisions' surplus equipment.


        Submitted by:                                            Approved by:

       7tt,zdu,,. ~.u67

                                                                 Tyler Wagaman
        Mathew Roseberry
                                                                 Deputy Chief, Administration
        Director of Technology



        ATTACHMENTS:

        Attachment 1: Resolution Agreement and List of Capital Assets




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                                      P31
                           Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         I           I     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700


    ~u,~
    ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief




                                          RESOLUTION NO. 2025-XXX

               A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                      I.T. EQUIPMENT


                WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political
         subdivision of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant
         to the State constitution and laws; and

               WHEREAS, the District's I.T. Division has old and unused capital assets that need
         to be E-Wasted; and

                WHEREAS, the district requires all resolution of capital assets to be presented
         to the board for approval to E-Waste.

               NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of
         the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District does hereby approve the resolution of IT
         equipment, as set forth in the attached Exhibit "A".

         Exhibit A:
lncode       Acquisition    Acquisition         Description     Serial NO.     Disposal Date    Fair Market      RedlNV
Asset#          Date           Cost                                            and Method       Value            Ta~ NO.
  4848       06/30/2016      $7,305.31          Asset Monitor      40881          E-Waste:           $0           501523
                                                                                  09/25/25
 4574        06/30/2016      $7,305.31          Asset Monitor      37456          E-Waste:            $0         501666
                                                                                  09/25/25
 4569        06/30/2016      $7,305.31          Asset Monitor      37184          E-Waste:            $0         501622
                                                                                  09/25/25
 3884        05/22/2006      $7,305.31          Asset Monitor      22428          E-Waste:            $0         501311
                                                                                  09/25/25
 4778        06/30/2016      $6,462.80          Asset Monitor      40140          E-Waste:            $0         501246
                                                                                  09/25/25
 4784        11/03/2016      $6,462.80          Asset Monitor      40146          E-Waste:            $0         501317
                                                                                  09/25/25




                                     Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
Resolution 2025-:XXX
Page2

   PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 25th day of September 2025. I, MARNI
RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular
meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:

                                  SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                  By: - - - - -- - -- - - - - -
                                      President, Board of Directors

ATTEST:



Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board




                                                                                              P33
                      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95665 • Phone (016) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859•3702


ADAM A, HOUSE
   Fire Ch/of


      DATl::          September 25, 2025

      TO:             Board of Directors

      SUBJECT:        Purchase Approval - Two (2) Squad Units


                                                       TOPIC

      Staff seeks Board approval for the purchase of two (2) Squad Units from Braun Northwest, Inc.

                                                  SUMMARY

      These vehicles will be used in new assignments as part of the District's Service Delivery and
      Capital Improvement Plan.

                                                 DISCUSSION

      The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (Metro Fire) Intends to fulfill this purchase utilizing
      Houston-Galveston Area Council (HGACBuy) contract number AM10-23, Model AM23CB01 .
      HGACBuy Is a government agency which provides a cooperative purchasing program as part of
      its service to other government agencies. Local governments are eligible to become
      participating members of HGACBuy, and Metro Fire Is a member. Products and services are
      contracted with HGACBuy after having been subjected to a competitive solicitation p(ocess. The
      Purchasing Division has reviewed the contract and determined it is consistent with Metro Fire
      purchasing policies and procedures.

                                               FISCAL IMPACT

      The total cost of the purchase for the.two (2) Squad Units Is $568,337.52. The funding for this
      purchase is included In the FY 2025/26 Final Budget.
                                  '                .

                                             RECOMMENDATION

      Staff respectfully recommends the Board approve the purchase of two (2) Squad Units from •
      Braun Northwest, Inc. utilizing HGACBuy contract number AM10-23, Model AM23CB01.

      Submitted by:

          c__S~(2.,_
      Shea Pursell
      Fleet Manager




                                      Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties



                                                                                                                        P34
~.... . a . - ~ -                               l-~--.-.- -
r:;;liM<l'-'IV~( IVVU ,nc.
150 North Star Drive/ PO Box 1204 / Chehalis, WA 98532 / 360.748.0195 / 800.245.6303 / fax 360.748.0256

                                                     HGAC PROPOSAL
    August 21, 2025

    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
    Attn: Shea Pursell
    4425 Dudley Blvd.
    McClellan, CA 95652
    pur11ell.shea@metl•ofire.ca.gov

    RE: Two (2) 2027 North Star 114-4 Rescues

    Braun Northwest is pleased to offer the following proposal which is based upon HGAC contract
    AMl0-23:

    Two (2) 2027 North Star 114-4 Rescues on a 2026 Chevrolet Silverado 3500 4x2 Crew Cab diesel
    chassis based upon enclosed NS Vehicle #4123-4 "As Built'' specifications dated 7/15/25 and drawings
    dated 6/7/25 with the following change:
        • Utilize 2026 Chevrolet 3500 4x2 Crew Cab diesel chassis with current model year options
    Base price HGAC AM23CB01 ..................................................................... $199,255.00
    Published/Customization options taken .......................................................... $ 67,700.00
    Multi Vehicle Discount ...... ....................................................................... <$ 3,500.00>
    HGAC Buy discount .......................................................... ...................... <$ 1,500.00>
    Subtotal ... ........................ ............................................. ........................• $261,955.00
    Sales Tax based on 7.75% .... ;...................... ................................................ $ 20,301.51
    California Tire Tax (no1~-taxilble) ................................................................. $             12.25
    Delivery of completed vebicle (non-taxable) .................................................... $ 1,400.00
    Subtotal for one (1) vehicle ........................ ............... ................................... $283,668.76
    Subtotal for hvo (2) vehicles ........... ............................................... ............... $567,337.52
    HGAC Fee .............................................................................................. $ 1,000.00
    Total for hvo (2) vehicles F.O.B. McClellan, CA ........................ ........................ $568,337.52****

    F.O.B.:           McClellan, California

    Delivery:         Approximately 530 - 580 days, based upon current manuf?cturing plan and receipt of
                      chassis.

    Terms:            Ninety percent (90%) payment due upon receipt of vehicle. Balance due in thirty (30)
                      days.
    *Note: Above prici11g includes a chassisjloori11gfee. You will be notified as soon as the chassis arrives at Braun
    Northwest. If the chassis is paid in full within 30-days of arrival a credit will be issued (See Options Page).
                                                                            I

    **/11 the eve11t ofchassis price i11creases due to tlte potentially impleme11ted tariffs, wlticlt are out ofBra1111 NW's
    co11trol, customer will be notified of the cost clta11ge associated with the cltassis, a11d adj11stme11ts will be made via a
    cha11ge order.




..
EMERliEI\ICY-VEHICLE!i                                                                              www.braunnw.com
                                                                                                                                   P35
150 North Star Drive/ PO Box 1204 / Chehalis, WA 98532 / 360.748.0195 / 800.245.6303 / fax 360.748.0256
    ***The "bove pricing is b"sed 11po11 the av"il"bility ofthe current model yem~ Should the model year 110 longer be
    av(lilable at the time the order is placed, a newer model yem· will be offered with mz "dj11stme11/ in price.

    **""Note: The above pricing includes round-trip tmvel charges for hvo (2) peopleflyillg in from S"cmmento, CA/or
    Final Inspection.

    Braun Northwest, Inc. is a California deafer (#16055) with insurance information available upon request.

    Respectfully Submitted by:                                    We agree to accept the above proposal:
    Braun Northwest, Inc.                                         Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

       ranu:~
     Tami McCallum, V.P,. of Sales                                   Signature                      Date

     Date:    8/21/25
                                                                     Printed Name                   Title
                                       TM
                                       ccBCILM
                                       Enclosures: Option page, specifications, drawings.




 ~;;~ii,
EMERliEI\ICY-\ii"Hlfl£!i                                                                      www.braunnw.com
                                                                                                                         P36
                                             OPTIONS
                                               FOR
                      Sacramen-to Metropolitan Fire District
                            McClellan, California

Please indicate if you want the following options by initialing in the space provided and
checking the appropriate "yes" or "no" box, then sign where indicated below. After
completion, please return this original form to our office along with the original proposal.

Thank you!

1.     Pay for chassis in full within 30-days of receipt of chassis at Braun Northwest.
       DEDUCT .......................................................... PER UNIT <$4,000.00>
       Do you want this option?                      □Yes □No _ _ _initials



               (NOTE: THIS PRICING DOES NOT INCLUDE SALES TAX.)


APPROVED BY:          (Please'initial above choice (s) & sign below)



 (Signature)                               (Date)             (Printed Name)                    (Title)




                                                                                                          P37
    HGACBuy CONTRACT PRICING WORl(SHEET                                  For MOTOR VEHICLES Only
                                                                                                                                                                                           Contract
                                                                                                                                                                                                     No.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AMI0-23l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Prepared:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8/21/2025



 Due to global supply chain constrnints, any delivery date contained herein is a good faith estimate as of the date of this
 order/contract. As needed, delivery updates will be provided as soon as possible.

      Buying
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (CA)                                                                                          Contractor:                  Braun Northwest, Inc.·
      Agency:
      Confacf                                                                                                                                            PrcJ1Ared
                    Shea Pursell                                                                                                                                                     Tami McCallum
      Person:                                                                                                                                                 Dy:

       Phone:       9 I 6-859-4140                                                                                                                           Phone:                  (800) 245-6303, ext. 1014
        Fnx:                                                                                                                                                  Fax:                   (360) 748-0256
       Emoil:       nursell.shea@metrofire.ca.gov                                                                                                            Email:                  tamilnccallum@braunnw.com
      Product
                     AM23CB01            North Star - Fire Rescue - Ford F-550 4x4 Crew Cab - Diesel Engine - 116"L x 94"W
                                                         De.,cripllon
     Drscrintion
                                                                                      ..
IA;Productitem. Bitse.Unit -P1;ice,Per·C<>nfracto1·1s-Ii-GAC Conti-act: ••        :
                                                                                    . .  ...        ' ..   ! , •       -: -.-
                                                                                                                                                                                     .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .I   s 199,255.oo 1
       I•••                . J                                                                                                                           ;           ;                                          ·;                               ..

B. P _ublish~d OptiQ1'S ~ Itemize below-Attach addi~ional sheet(s) if necessary,                                                                                                                                                                       :                ..          ..
(Note:
 •    .
        Published' Op'tiorts
                        I
                             are• "manufacturer staud_
                                                   .
                                                     ard options''
                                                           .
                                                                  . which
                                                                    . ,
                                                                          were submitted atid priced
                                                                                               !
                                                                                                     in Contractor's propos_a.l.)                                                                                                                                             •'

                                                                                                                !                                                                                                                                             !
                                         Desc1·iption                                                           i          Cost                                                                         Description                                           i              Cost
                                                                                                                !:                                                                                                                                            I
                                    ..                    ~- . ,..,                 ...                                                                                                                                                                       !
                                                                                                                :         ··•r•-•      ..                                            ,.   --· ....                                                            :

                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                     l
                                                '
                      ,'
                                                                                                                !! .I                                                            I                                                   I
                                                                 . ;,'                                                          I                                                                                    ;                                ..
                                                                                                                                             .'                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                             i
                      •                                                                                                                                                      ,·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l


                           /'
                           I
                                                    I
                                                                                                           ;
                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                             '                  I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     \
                                                    '                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ' .
                                                                             ·• .
                                    .. '                     ..   ,      ,     .                               .-               -     ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ., i·· :
                               ,,                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                            ·,         p f:        ..-
                                                        ' :\ :_ :·· r
                                    L
                                           ,'
                                                                                          :, ·. - ,.J ,.       .- : i_'    1:i 1     t.'!                      ~             .. i;_ .                                    '   .ru         :'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                i                                                                                                                                             i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :
                                                                                                                !
                                                                                                                iI                                                                                      Subtotal Fl'om Additional Shcct(s): I S 2s,69s.oo I
                                                                                                                i
                                                                                                                i                                                                                                                             I Subtotal B:   ! $ 25,69s.oo 1
C. Custo~izati~n Category Totals - Itemize bel!)~V / Att~cll additional $.hCet(s)· necessary: . •                           !     •                                      fr
(Note: Custom1zatioil bptioris ar~ "n1anufacturer non-stahdard options".which were ;ubmi~!ed and priced in Coiltrac_t<irs's proposal.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                        Description                                                             !:         Cost                                                                         Description                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              i              Cost
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Snbtotal Frnm Additional Sheet(s): I $ 42,005.001

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          II Subtotal C:      ! $ 42,oos.oo I
 Chccl1: Tola! cost of Customization Categories (C) cannot exceed 25% of the total of the Base j
                                                                                               I                                                                                             For this transaction the percentage is:                                                19o/c
                           Unit Price plus Published Options (A+B).                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..
D. Total C?st Before Atty A,ppifoab1¢ Trod~~In/ O'ther Allowances/ :Qiscou11ts (A+B+C) '                                                                                                                                                                   ' !
               Quantity Ordered: II       11                    X Subtotal of A+ B + C: I
                                                                2                                                                                                                             266,955           11           =                                !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11 Subtotal D: $ 533,910.00 I
IE, H,-GAC Ordel'Pt·9cessi11g Charge (Amount,Pe1: C1w1·en,t :Policy)          '                                                                                                                                                          II Subtotal E: j S 1,000.00 I
F. Trade-Ins/ Special l>iscotints / Other Allow'lnccs /Freight/ Installation/ Miscellaneous Charges
                                         Description                                                                       Cost                                                                         Description                                                          Cost
               HGAC Buy Discount <$1,500> per unit                                                                   s (3,000.00)                                   Multi Velticle Discount <SJ,500> per unit                                                      s (7,000.00)
                     Sales Tax based on 7.75%                                                                        s    40,603.02                                                              California Tire Tax                                               s           24.50
                   Delivery of Completed Vehicle                                                                     s     2,800.00 ..            •:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11 Subtotal F:       j S 33,427.52 1

I                                   _· I>~liv.e1; Date:!
                                                                                          Approx. 530-58011· .
                                                                                                                                    days .
                                                                                                                                                                     · ··<?· Total Purch,ase Price. (D+E+F):                                               I       S 568,337.52



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P38
       Code or                                                                                       Offered
       Part No.                                         Published Option
                                                                                                      Price
 1.02.33           Trailer Hitch/Plug - Class V                                                  $    1,195.00
 2.08              Extra aluminum strip (Total of 16)                                            $    1,200.00
 3.04              Paint roofofthe module white (down to drip rails on 147" - 167" module)   $        1,200.00
 3.04              Chevrons, Standard Red/Yellow - Entire Rear                               $        1,400.00
 4.01              Bumper - Standard 7" - Open Grate                                         $          500.00
 4.16              License Plate - Oval Bezel LED, Whelen 0AC0EDCR / 0SC0EDCR                $          125.00
 6.02              Voltmeter/Ammeter - Digital - Dual Alternators - I1tl'ower                $          800.00
6.05              Module - Disconnect/ Irtl'ower / Solid State/ 275 Amp SSC42-275            $          425.00
6.09              Modifications to Switch Plate/Console (Total of2)                          $        1,200.00
6.09              Adjustable arm rests                                                       $          200.00
6.17              Brake/Tail. Turn, Backup Lights - Whelen M6 Series                         $        2,025.00
6.19.01           Install customer supplied antenna                                          $         275.00
6.21              Shoreline Power - 120 VAC GFCI Duplex Ground Outlets (Total 6f2)           $         400.00
6.24              Integrator - Battery/ Egis Mobile Electric/ Programmable                   $         350.00
6.24              Battery boost switch                                                       $         400.00
6.26              LED Flex-Lite Rope - Sold per ft, (Total of2_1)                            $        2,100.00
6.27              Magnetic doo1· switch (per module)                                         $         775.00
6.30              Prima1y/Secondary position and dimmer                                      $         525.00
6.30.03           Flasher - M7 series, Super LED, Single Color {Total of (i)                 $       2,250.00
6.30.03           Flasher - M6 series, Super LED, Split Color (Total of6)                    $       1,800.00
6.30.04           Scenelights - M7 series, Super LED, M7ZC (TQ!al 6)                         $       1,650.00

6.30.08           Grille Light - WION LED (Totai of~)                                        $       1,150.00
6.30.09           Siren - Whelen Howler, can't be used as stand alone                        $       1,250.00
6.40              Electric Door Locks - OEM Key Fobs and hidden switch behind license        $       2,500.00

                                                                            ~,
                  Total Changes                                                              $ 25,695.00




                                                                                                                 P39
                                                                                                                         Offered
      Category                                        Customization Description
                                                                                                                          Price
                     Change in model year and price increase associated with it, additional chassis options, or
1.01. Chassis                                                                                                        $    (8,181.00)
                     changing to "customer supplied" chassis

1.02. Chassis        Installation of additional eqipment/parts (not covered by Published Options Parts List), or
                                                                                                                     $    13,934.00
Modifications        deletion of specified items, additional labor associated with changes

2. Modular           Changes to overall module size and design, cost of materials, non-standard equipment
                                                                                                                     $    17,105.00
Construction         installed/utilized in Compartments and Cabinets

3. Coatings and      GraphicsiLettering by third party, non-standard material usage, additional paint cost based on
                                                                                                                    $      1,700.00
Finishes             module size and design
                     Changes to cost of materials, overall module size and equipment installed/utilized, deletion
4. Module Exterior   of spec'ed equipment which is part of the vehicles' build up cost, installation of additional   $     1,050.00
                     non-standard eqipment/parts
                     Deletion of spec'ed equipment which is part of the vehicles' build up cost, installation of
5. Module Interior
                     additional non-standard eqipment/parts

                     Change in cost based on items/parts/radios used in custom build, or delet,ion of standard
6. Electrical                                                                                                        $     5,650.00
                     equioment which is part of the vehicles' build up cost

6.30. Emergency      Installation of flashers/scenelights/sirens/masts/inverters etc., which nre not in Published
                                                                                                                     $     8,797.00
Warning System       Options Parts List

8.01 Loose
                     Any additional non-standard items/parts shipped loose with the vehicle                          $     1,950.00
Equipment



                     Total Changes                                                                                   $    42,005.00




                                                                                                                                       P40
