                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
     Todd Harms
      Fire Chief
                                           BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING

                                           Thursday, August 11, 2022 – 6:00 PM
                                               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Cinthia Saylors                                     10545 Armstrong Avenue
Board President
Division 1
                                                   Board Room – Second Floor
                                                        Mather, California
D’Elman Clark                                                   &
Board Vice President
Division 6                                             Remotely Via Zoom
                                                      Phone: (669) 900-6833
Walt White
Board Secretary                                    Webinar ID: 844 7210 5296#
Division 9                                           Passcode: 045 853 826#
Grant Goold
Board Member
                           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                     and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Randy Orzalli
Board Member
                       The Governor has declared a State of Emergency to exist in California as a result of
Division 3             the threat of COVID-19 (aka the “Coronavirus”). The Governor issued Executive
                       Order N-25-20 and N-29-20, which directs Californians to follow public health
Ted Wood               directives including canceling large gatherings. Per the State of Emergency effective
Board Member
Division 4             March 2, 2020, the Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       proclaimed that a local emergency exists, and authorized remote teleconference
Jennifer Sheetz        meetings from July 14, 2022 through August 12, 2022 pursuant to Brown Act
Board Member           provisions.
Division 5

Vacant                 The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of the
Board Member           Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all appropriate health
Division 7
                       safety precautions. If you would like to view the meeting via the Zoom
Gay Jones              Application, please contact Board Clerk Penilla via email at the address listed
Board Member           below.
Division 8

                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
                       reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance
                       of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable accommodations:

                                                                  Melissa Penilla
                                                                    Board Clerk
                                                                  (916) 859-4305
                                                         penilla.melissa@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.



                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                      THURSDAY, AUGUST 11, 2022


CALL TO ORDER
ROLL CALL
PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT
The Open Session Meeting is videotaped for cablecast on Metro Cable 14. Replay on
Saturday, August 13th at 1:00pm and Monday, August 15th at 6:00pm on Channel 14; Webcast
at metro14live.saccounty.net.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN DISTRICT
JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and encourages public
interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public members desiring to address the
Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding officer and identify themselves for the record.
The presiding officer may in the interest of time and good order limit the number of public member
presentations. Speakers’ comments will be limited to three minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members of the Public
requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be present or have a
representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of issues to
committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval, declaration of surplus
equipment, and other consent matters. Consent Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board
member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                 Page No.
1.   Action Summary Minutes                                                       6
     Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board
     meeting of July 28, 2022.

2.      Surplus Vehicle Designation                                                                                   11
        Recommendation: Adopt a Resolution establishing a list of surplus vehicles,
        and sell or donate the vehicles as deemed appropriate by the Fire Chief.

3.      Purchase Approval – Five (5) Pierce Type I Engines                                                            13
        Recommendation: Approve the purchase of five (5) Type I Pierce Engines
        from Golden State Fire Apparatus in the amount of $4,129,662.45.

4.      Purchase Approval – Three (3) North Star Ambulances                                                           14
        Recommendation: Approve the purchase of three (3) 2023 North Star
        Ambulances from Braun Northwest in the amount of $823,878.13.
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                   THURSDAY, AUGUST 11, 2022


5.     City of Citrus Heights Agreement for Administration of the                                                     15
       Capital Fire Facilities Impact Fee
       Recommendation: Adopt a resolution authorizing the Fire Chief or his designee to
       execute the agreement between the City of Citrus Heights and the District regarding
       administration of a Capital Fire Facilities Fee.

6.     Bid Award – Station Access Control, Phase 2                                                                    23
       Recommendation: Approve the Request for Exception to Competitive Bidding
       Process and approve the bid award to Access Systems, Inc.

7.    Authorization to Employ Retired Annuitant – Lisa Barsdale                                                       24
      Recommendation: Adopt a resolution authorizing an exemption to the CalPERS
      180-day wait period.

PRESENTATION ITEM
1.   Property Tax Revenue Forecasting (Jeff Frye, Chief Development Officer)                                          *
     Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.

ACTION ITEMS
1.   ARFF Service Agreement – McClellan Business Park, LLC                                                          31
     (Jeff Frye, Chief Development Officer)
     Recommendation: Adopt a resolution authorizing the Fire Chief or his designee
     to execute the agreement for McClellan Airport Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting
     Services.

2.     Ratification of Resolution to Extend Teleconference of Board                                                 74
       Meetings (Government Code 54953(e) (3)) (President Saylors)
       Recommendation: Consider adopting a Resolution which would extend the
       ability to teleconference without compliance of Government Code paragraph
       (3) of subdivision (b) of section 54953 from August 11, 2022 – September 9, 2022
       or until further re-ratified.

3.     Industrial Disability Retirement – Kevin R. Henson                                                            **
       Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a
       Resolution finding Engineer Henson has suffered job related injuries and is
       eligible for an Industrial Disability Retirement.

REPORTS

1.     PRESIDENT’S REPORT—(President Saylors)

2.     FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT—(Chief Harms)
             OPERATIONS’ REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

3.    SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice President)
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                        THURSDAY, AUGUST 11, 2022


4.       COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
         All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
         10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.
         A.       Executive Committee – (President Saylors)
                  Report Out:   August 11, 2022 at 5:30 PM
                  Next Meeting: TBD

         B.       Communications Center JPA – (DC Wagaman)
                  Next Meeting: September 13, 2022 at 9:00 AM

         C.       Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Orzalli)
                  Next Meeting: August 25, 2022 at a time 5:00 PM

         D.       Policy Committee – (Director Goold)
                  Next Meeting: TBD


BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS


CLOSED SESSION
1.   Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) – one (1) matter of
     Industrial Disability Retirement.

         A.       Kevin R. Henson and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  Claim # SMDQ - 549980 – Industrial Disability Retirement
                  Ty Bailey, Deputy Chief Administration

2.       PERSONNEL MATTERS – PUBLIC EMPLOYEE EMPLOYMENT
         Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957

         Fire Chief Selection Process

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, 10545
Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA
     •   Special Board Meeting – August 25, 2022 at 6:00 PM

The following action and presentation items are scheduled for the next board meeting agenda.
Board members are requested to identify additional action or presentation items they desire to
be scheduled on the agenda.

ANTICIPATED AGENDA ITEMS:                      Board Director Vacancy – Division 7
                      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                      10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, AUGUST 11, 2022



Posted on August 8, 2022


______________________________________
Melissa Penilla, Clerk of the Board
* No written report
**    Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
