       l           I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   ~•;I~                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700

  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS" REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                           Thursday, January 22, 2026 - 6:00 p.m.
John Costa
                                            Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                              10545 Armstrong Avenue, Suite 200
Division 9
                                                 Boardroom - Second Floor
                                                      Mather, California
Robert Webber
Board Vice President                                          &
Division 3                                           Remotely Via Zoom
                                                Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Brian Rice
Board Secretary
                                                    Passcode: metro2101
Division 7                                Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
                                                   ir Passcode: 838771796 #
Cinthia Saylors         https://us06web.zoom .us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ1 Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d 1VWZz09
Board Member
Division 1


Grant Goold            The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Board Member               and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.
Division 2


Ted Wood               The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Board Member
Division 4
                       the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. ,To view the meeting via the Zoom
Shawn Stark            Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 5
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
D'Elman Clark
Board Member           reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
Division 6             advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
                       accommodations:
Board Member
Division 8                                                     Marni Rittburg
                                                                Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties




                                                                                                                                 P1 .
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                  THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2026


►      CALL TO ORDER

►      ROLL CALL

►      PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video-
streamed at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov. Today's meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
January 26, 2026, and again at 2:00 p.m. on Thursdky, January 29, 2026, on Metro
Cable Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand
at voutube. comlmetrocable 14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the
presiding officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the
interest of time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations.
Speakers' comments will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures,
members of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting
record must be present or have a representative present to read their comments during
the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral
of issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly
approval, declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent
Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion
and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                      Page No.


1. .     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                             6
         Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
         Board Meeting of November 13, 2025.



                                                                                                                                P2
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (91 6) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2026


2.   Calendar Year 2026 Investment Policy for Pooled Funds                                                               12
     Recommendation : Receive and adopt the 2026 Annual Investment Policy for
     Sacramento County Pooled Investment Fund.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:
1.   FY 2024/25 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR), Accompanying 28
     Audit Reports, and GFOA Certificate of Achievement
     **Im Separate Attachment
     (CFO Dave O' Toole, and Ahmed Badawi, CPA)
     Recommendation: Receive the presentation and accept the reports.

2.   FY 2024/25 Community Annual Report (CAR) and FY 2023/24 GFOA Popular 79
     Annual Financial Reporting Award
     (CFO Dave O' Toole)
     Recommendation: Accept and file the Community Annual Report.

3.   Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA) Triple Crown                                                          98
     Recognition
     (CFO Dave O' Toole)
     Recommendation: Accept and file the award.

REPORTS:
1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                (President Costa)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -               (A cting Fire Chief Wagaman)

            OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman) - No Report

            ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

            SUPPORT & EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy
            Chief Mitchell) - No Report

3.   SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT- (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
     522 Vice President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

     A.     Executive Committee - (President Costa)
            Next Meeting: February 12, 2026, at 5:00 p.m.
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2026


      8.      Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
              Next Meeting: January 27, 2026, at 9:00 a.m.
              SRFECC Annex - 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite 200, Sacramento

      C.      Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
              Next Meeting: February 26, 2026, at 5:30 p.m.

      D.      Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
              Next Meeting: February 12, 2025, at 5:30 p.m.

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter(s):

1.    CONFERENCE WITH LABOR NEGOTIATOR
      Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6

      A. District Negotiator:     Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
           Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522
      B. District Negotiator:     Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
           Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                  Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522
      C. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      D. District Negotiator:     Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
           Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                  and Unrepresented Confidential Employees
      E. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees
      F. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: EMT and Paramedic Memorandum of Understanding

2.    CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - ANTICIPATED LITIGATION -
      Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
      Section 54956.9 (b): One Case                                        •
               Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
               Jessica Garza v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
             / John Lavra, General Counsel



                                                                                                                          P4
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                   THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2026


3.       CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - PENDING/ANTICIPATED LITIGATION
         Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
         Section 54956.9(a)(d)(2): One Case
               Alleged assault at District fire station
               John Lavra, General Counsel

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Suite 200, Mather, CA 95655

     •   Regular Board Meeting - February 12, 2026, at 6:00 p.m.

Posted on January 16, 2026, by 4:30 p.m.



Marni Rittburg~ c,cPM
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
•ml Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility.




                                                                                                                             PS
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   1       I

                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702
~u,1"
ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief      ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING
                                BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                        SACRAMENTO METRO POLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                        Thursday, November 13, 2025, at 6:00 PM
                                 Held at the following locations: ,
                             10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                        Mather, California
                                                 &
                                       Remotely Via Zoom
   CALL TO ORDER

   The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm by Director Webber. Board members present:
   Clark, Goold, Jones, Saylors, Stark, and Webber. Board members on Zoom: Costa. Board
   members absent: Rice and Wood. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.
                                                                    l


   PUBLIC COMMENTS

   One public comment was received from Chase Michelotti with Cordova Recreation and Park
   District.

   CONSENT ITEMS

   Moved by Director Goold, seconded by Clark, and carried unanimously by members present
   to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

   1.     Revision of Board Policy 01.004.03 - Equal Employment Opportunity Policy
          Recommendation: Approve the revisions to the Equal Employment Opportunity Policy
          #01.004.03.
          Action: Approved the revisions to the Equal Employment Opportunity Policy.

   2.     Adoption of Ordinance 2025-02, Adopting and Amending the 2025 California Fire
          Code, Title 24, California Code of Regulations, Part 9
          Recommendation: Adopt Ordinance 2025-02, thereby adopting and amending the
          2025 California Fire Code, Title 24, California Code of Regulations, Part 9.
          Action: Adopted Ordinance 2025-02.

   3.     Adopt Resolutions - Employer's Contribution Under the Public Employees' Medical
          and Hospital Care Act (CalPERS)
          Recommendation: Adopt the three (3) Resolutions establishing the health premium
          contributions to reflect the new benefit cap with Cal PERS effective January 1, 2026.

          A. Resolution - Fixing SMFD's Vesting Contribution Under Section 22896
                          of the Public Employees' Medical and Hospital Care Act -
                          000 All Employees
                          Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-078.


                                                                                                           P6
      8. Resolution - Fixing the Employer Contribution at an Equal Amount for
                      Employees and Annuitants Under the Public Employees' Medical
                      and Hospital Care Act - 000 All Employees
                      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-079.

      C. Resolution - Fixing the Employer Contribution at an Equal Amount for
                      Employees and Annuitants Under the Public Employees' Medical
                      and Hospital Care Act - 700 All Employees (Non-PERS)
                      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-080.

4.    Purchase Approval - Perfluoroalkyl & Polyfluoroalkyl Substance-Free (PFAS-Free)
      Class 8 Firefighting Foam
      Recommendation: Approve the purchase of six (6) 330-gallon totes and eighty (80)
      5-gallon pails of PFAS-Free Class B foam from L.N. Curtis & Sons, utilizing
      Sourcewell Contract #020124-LNC.
      Action: Approved the purchase.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.    Citizen Responders Project
      (Captain James Ellis, Community Relations Specialist April West & Director of
      Government Affairs Kyle Macdonald)
      Recommendation: Receive the presentation.
      Action: Presentation received.

ACTION ITEMS

1.   Adopt Resolution - Deferred Compensation Plan Committee Charter
     (Retired Fire Captain Jim Newcomer, Deferred Compensation Committee Member
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
     District Deferred Compensation Plan Committee Charter.
     Action: Moved by Director Goold, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
     members present to table this item to a future meeting after General Counsel Lavra reviews
     the Deferred Compensation Plan Committee Charter.

2.    Purchase Approval - Four (4) BME Type Ill Engines
      (Shea Pursell, Fleet Manager)
      Recommendation: Approve the purchase of four (4) BME Type Ill Engines from Golden
      State Fire Apparatus, Inc., utilizing HGACBuy contract #FS12-23, Targhee.
      Action: Moved by Director Goold, seconded by Stark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to approve the Purchase of four (4) BME Type Ill Engines.

3.    Purchase Approval - Seven (7) BME Type V Engines
      (Shea Pursell, Fleet Manager)
      Recommendation: Approve the purchase of seven (7) BME Type V Engines from Golden
      State Fire Apparatus, Inc., utilizing HGACBuy contract #FS12-23, McCall.
      Action: Moved by Director Goold, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by
      members present to approve the Purchase of seven (7) BME Type V Engines.

4.    Purchase Approval - Twenty-Five (25) North Star Ambulances
      (Shea Pursell, Fleet Manager)
      Recommendation: Approve the purchase of twenty-five (25) North Star Ambulances from
      Braun Northwest, Inc., utilizing HGACBuy contract #AM10-23, AM23CA04.
                                                                                             P7
11.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                Page 2 of 6
          Action: Moved by Director Goold, seconded by Saylors, and carried unanimously by
          members present to approve the Purchase of ,twenty-five (25) North -Star Ambulances.

5.        Purchase Approval - 3000 Gallon Water Tender
          (Shea Pursell, Fleet Manager)
          Recommendation: Approve the purchase of a 3000 Gallon Water Tender from Fouts Fire
          utilizing HGACBuy contract #FS12-23, D13.
          Action: Moved by Director Goold, seconded by Saylors, and carried unanimously by
          members present to approve the Purchase of a 3000 Gallon Water Tender.

REPORTS

1.       PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

          No Report

2.       FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -        (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

Good evening, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public

I'll be providing the Fire Chief's report this·evening, as Chief House is currently attending the
Cal-JAC conference.

New Hires

Please join me in welcoming:

     •    Robert Bumgarner, hired for the position of Fleet Shop Assistant, effective November
          3, 2025.
     •    Jason Harcourt, hired for the position of Facilities Technician, effective October 27,
          2025. Jason came to the podium and introduced himself to the Board.

Alameda County EMS and Fire Delegation Visit to Metro Fire

On November 4, Metro Fire hosted leadership from Alameda County Fire, Oakland Fire,
Fremont Fire, Alameda County EMS, and labor representatives who requested to learn about
our integrated ambulance response and transport model and system performance.

The visit reflects positively on Metro Fire's service delivery model and the collaborative work
occurring across Sacramento County's EMS system.

Human Resources 1/1/25 - 11/12/2025
             •   Promotional Exams:
                    o Battalion Chief
                    o Captain
                    o Deputy Fire Marshal
                    o Supervising Inspector

             •   Recruitments: 10 External
             •   Retirements: 7
             •   Policies completed: 22 policies were edited and/or written
                                                                                                    PS
11.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 3 of 6
WORKERS COMPENSATIONS

             •   WC claims processed: 280 claims
             •   Over 20 sessions of a joint Peer Support and Workers' Compensation training
                 has been presented to the line. The remainder of the crews will receive the
                 training by the first week of December.
             •   A new claim reporting packet has been released cutting the forms required from
                 the member to report a claim in half.
             •   New and expanded medical partnerships formed leading to faster medical
                 service delivery to members. (My NP, MAC PT accepting WC at Station 21
                 twice per week, location of a local and culturally competent psychologist willing
                 to act as a primary treater for PTSD claims).

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Battalion Chief Wilbourn)

We've had three fires since our last Board meeting, 2 were at vacant office buildings, and one
was a house fire. Well done to our crews who worked on those fires. Currently we have
members training at the Sacramento Fire High Rise Drill working together and collaborating
with many other agencies. The Suppression Academy starts on Monday with 20
Firefighter/Paramedics recruits.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
No Report

SUPPORT SERVICES - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

No Report

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - ,(Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522
   Vice President)
     No Report

4.     COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
       All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
       10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

       A.        Executive Committee - (President Wood)
                 No Report

       B.        Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

                 No Report

        C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)

                 No Report


       D.        Policy Committee - (Director Saylors)
                 The Policy Committee met tonight on one action item, Non-Retaliation Board
                 Policy which was moved to the full Board for approval at a future meeting.
                                                                                                                    pg
11.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                       Page 4 of 6
BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

All Directors wished everyone a Happy Thanksgiving.

Director Jones reported that she and Director Goold participated in the City of Folsom 2 x 2
and it was a great first step in opening the dialogue. Since it is the Thanksgiving season, I'm
very thankful that this month I'm able to celebrate a 20-year anniversary. I'm grateful that in
2005 I was able to donate a Kidney to a Lieutenant Kernal in the United States Army, a gulf
war veteran, a helicopter pilot and we are both doing very well today. I like to say that the fire
service rendered mutual aid to the United States Army. If anyone is interested in learning
more about organ donation, please contact me.

Director Goold gave kudos to all who participated in and continue to participate in the Citizen
Responders Project that was presented this evenfng. I think we will look back 10 years from
now and find that our cardiac care numbers and survival rates skyrocket. Tonight, we
purchased 37 pieces of apparatus and I want to give a shoutout to our citizens for reaching in
to their hard-earned money, which we would not be able to do without the citizens trusting the
men and women at Metro Fire, and for allowing us to continue to improve and provide our
citizens services.                        •                                  •

Director Webber reported that he suspended the Ad Hoc Committee as of today that was
focused on Workers' Compensation. A major announcement was made today involving
mental health and behavior health that we now have eight clinicians that we can now send
our members to. The Workers' Compensation Liaison can take a look at the case and
determine whether the member needs to be raised to the next level and we now have the
eight clinicians. This is a major breakthrough and I thank staff for their hard work.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 7:05 p.m. on the following matter(s):

1. PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (a) -
   ONE (1) MATTER OF WORKERS' COMPENSATION SETTLEMENT AUTHORITY.

     1.   Michael Ryan Gifford and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          Claim #4A2301SLCVZ0001 and #24-175399, - Workers' Compensation Settlement
          Authority - Tyler Sonksen of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP
          Action: Moved by Goold, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by members
          present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a settlement of the
          matter.

2.        CONFERENCE WITH LABOR NEGOTIATOR
          Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6
          A. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
             Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522
          8 . District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
              Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                     Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522
          C. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
             Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                    Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

                                                                                                       P10
11.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                        Page 5 of 6
      D. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees
      E. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees
      F. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: EMT and Paramedic Memorandum of Understanding
                                 I

3.    Public Employee Performance Evaluation: Fire Chief
      Pursuant to Government Code Sections 54957(b)(1) and 54954.5(e)

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened in open session at 8:41 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
that the Board met in closed session on three items: 1. Workers' Compensation Settlement
Authority for Michael Ryan Gifford , the Board voted unanimously to approve a Workers'
Compensation Settlement and give authority to its third-party administrator to effectuate a
settlement of that claim. 2. Conference with Labor Negotiator; no reportable action was taken
in closed session . 3. Public Employee Performance Evaluation of the Fire Chief; no
reportable action was taken in closed session.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://m.etrofire.ca.gov/2025-11 -13-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA

ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:42 p.m.



Ted Wood, Board President                             Robert Webber, Secretary



Marni Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk




                                                                                                P11
11.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                  Page 6 of 6
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
      l      I
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

 'wn,~
 ADAM HOUSE
   Fire Chief



Date:            January 22, 2026

To:              Board of Directors

Re:              Calendar Year 2026 Investment Policy for Pooled Funds


                                            Background

California Government Code §53646(b) requires the District's fiscal officer to submit a
statement of investment policy to the legislative body.

                                             Discussion

In previous years, the District adopted the Annual Investment Policy for Sacramento ·
County Pooled Investment Fund which is revised annually. The Finance Division uses
this policy to guide its investment procedures.

                                         Recommendation

Staff recommends that the Committee receive and adopt the 2026 Annual Investment
Policy for Sacramento County Pooled Investment Fund.


Submitted by:




~
Controller


Approved by:




Dave O'Toole
Chief Financial Officer



                                    Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                                   P12
   SACRAMENTO COUNTY

   Annual Investment Policy
of the Pooled Investment Fund

    CALENDAR YEAR 2026


              Approved by the
   Sacramento County Board of Sup ervisors

          December 9, 2025
       Resolution No. 2025-0764




                                             P13
                                              Table of Contents


I.      Authority ...................................................................................................................................... 1
II.     Policy Statement ........................................... .............................................................................. 1
111.     Standard of Care ......................................................................................................................... 1

IV.      Investment Objectives ............. ................................. .......................................... ......................... 1                , I
        A. Safety of Principal ............................................................. ..... .. ........................... ........ 1
        B. Liquidity ....... ........................................................ .... ....................... .... ......................... 2
        C. Public Trust ... ........ .............................. .............................................................. .. .. ...... 2
        D. Maximum Rate of Return .. ............ ............................... ...... ................................... .. .... 2
v..     Pooled Investment Fund Investors .................................................. ........ .... ........ ....................... 2

VI.      Implementation ............................... ................................................ ............... .............................. 2
VII.     Internal Controls ......... ............................................................... .................... ......... ... .................. 3

VIII.    Sacramento County Treasury Oversight Committee .................................................................. 3
IX.      Investment Parameters .......... ................................................................ ..................................... 4
         A.  lnvestable Funds ........... ..... .... ..................................... ............... .... ... ......................... 4
         B.  Authorized Investments ...... ......... ..................... ....... .................................................. .4
         C.  Prohibited Investments ...................... ................................ ........ ................................. 5
         D.  Credit Requirements ..... ..................... .......... ............................ .... ...... ....................... .. 5
         E.  Maximum Maturities ............................................ .................... ... ............................... .. 6
         F. Maximum Concentrations ................... .. ....................................... ......... ...................... 7
         G. Repurchase Agreements ................................1... ... ................... ................... ....... ......... 7
         H. Community Reinvestment Act Program .......... ... .. .............. ..... ... .. ...................... ....... .. 8
         I.  Criteria and Qualifications of Brokers/Dealers and Direct Issuers .......................... .. .. 8
         J. Investment Guidelines, Management Style and Strategy .................................... .. ..... 9
         K. Approved Lists ......... .... ................................................... .. ...... .... ................................ 9
         L. Calculation of Yield and Costs ..................... ...... .. .. .. .. .. ...... .........; ............. ................ .. 9
X.       Reviewing, Monitoring and Reporting of the Portfolio ............................. .'............................ .... 10
XI.      Withdrawal Requests for Pooled Fund Investors........................ .................... .......................... 1O
XII.     Limits on Honoraria, Gifts, and Gratuities ............................ .................... ... ....... ....................... 10
XIII.    Terms and Conditions for Outside Investors .......... ................... .. ............................. .................. 11
Comparison and Interpretation of Credit Ratings .................................................... ............................. 12




                                                                           -i-

                                                                                                                                                               P14
                                 SACRAMENTO COUNTY

                          Annual Investment Policy
                     of the Pooled Investment Fund
                                 CALENDAR YEAR 2026



I.     Authority
       Under the Sacramento County Charter, the Board of Supervisors established the position
       of Director of Finance and by ordinance will annually review and renew the Director of
       Finance's authority to invest and reinvest all the funds in the County Treasury.

II.    Policy Statement
       This Investment Policy (Policy) establishes cash management and investment guidelines
       for the Director of Finance, who is responsible for the stewardship of the Sacramento
       County Pooled Investment Fund . Each transaction and the entire portfolio must comply
       with California Government Code and this Policy. All portfolio activities will be judged by
       the standards of the Policy and its investment objectives. Activities that violate its spirit
       and intent will be considered contrary to the Policy.

Ill.   Standard of Care
       The Director of Finance is the Trustee of the Pooled Investment Fund and therefore, a
       fiduciary subject to the prudent investor standard. The Director of Finance, employees
       involved in the investment process, and members of the Sacramento County Treasury
       Oversight Committee (Oversight Committee) shall refrain from all personal business
       activities that could conflict with the management of the investment program. All
       individuals involved will be required to report all gifts and income in accordance with
       California state law. When investing, reinvesting, purchasing, acquiring, exchanging,
       selling and managing public funds, the Director of Finance shall act with care, skill,
       prudence, and diligence to meet the aims of the investment objectives listed in Section
       IV, Investment Objectives.

IV.    Investment Objectives
       The Pooled Investment Fund shall be prudently invested in order to earn a reasonable
       return, while awaiting application for governmental purposes. The specific objectives for
       the Pooled Investment Fund are ranked in order of importance.

       A.     Safety of Principal
              The preservation of principal is the primary objective. Each transaction shall seek
              to ensure that capital losses are avoided, whether they be from securities default
              or erosion of market value.




                                                                                            Page 1

                                                                                                  P15
Annual Investment Policy of the Pooled Investment Fund                      Calendar Year 2026


      B.     Liquidity
             As a second objective, the Pooled Investment Fund should remain sufficiently
             flexible to enable the Director of Finance to meet all operating requirements that
             may be reasonably anticipated in any depositor's fund.

      C.     Public Trust
             In managing the Pooled Investment Fund, the Director of Finance and the
             authorized investment staff should avoid any transactions that might impair public
             confidence in Sacramento County and the participating local agencies.
             Investments should be made with precision and care, considering the probable
             safety of the capital as well as the probable income to be derived.

      D.     Maximum Rate of Return
             As the fourth objective, the Pooled Investment Fund should be designed to attain
             a market average rate of return through budgetary and economic cycles,
             consistent with the risk limitations, prudent investment principles and cash flow
             characteristics identified herein. For comparative purposes, the State of California
             Local Agency Investment Fund (LAIF) and similarly-sized California county pools
             will be used as performance benchmarks.

V.    Pooled Investment Fund Investors
      The Pooled Investment Fund investors are comprised of Sacramento County, school and
      community college districts, districts directed by the Board of Supervisors, and
      independent special districts and joint powers authorities whose treasurer is the Director
      of Finance. Any local agencies not included in this category are subject to California
      Government Code section 53684 and are referred to as outside investors.

VI.   Implementation
      In order to provide direction to those responsible for management of the Pooled
      Investment Fund, the Director of Finance has established this Policy and will provide it to
      the Oversight Committee and render it to legislative bodies of local agencies that
      participate in the Pooled Investment Fund. In accordance with California Government
      Code section 53646, et seq., the Board of Supervisors shall review and approve this
      Policy annually at a public meeting.

      This Policy provides a detailed description of investment parameters used to implement
      the investment process and includes the following : investable funds; authorized
      instruments; prohibited investments; credit requirements; maximum maturities and
      concentrations; repurchase agreements; Community Reinvestment Act Program; criteria
      and qualifications of broker/dealers and direct issuers; investment guidelines,
      management style and strategy; Approved Lists; and calculation of yield and costs.



Page 2

                                                                                                    P16
Annual Investment Policy of the Pooled Investment Fund                        Calendar Year 2026


VII.    Internal Controls
        The Director of Finance shall establish internal controls to provide reasonable assurance
        that the investment objectives are met and to ensure that the assets are protected from
        loss, theft, or misuse. To assist in implementation and internal controls, the Director of
        Finance has established an Investment Group and a Review Group.

        The Investment Group, which is comprised of the Director of Finance and his/her
        designees, is responsible for maintenance of the investment guidelines and Approved
        Lists. These guidelines and lists can be altered daily, if needed, to adjust to the ever-
        changing financial markets. The guidelines can be more conservative or match the policy
        language. In no case can the guidelines override the Policy.

        The Review Group, which is comprised of the Director of Finance and his/her designees,
        is responsible for the monthly review and appraisal of all the investments purchased by
        the Director of Finance and staff. This review includes bond proceeds, which are
        invested separately from the Pooled Investment Fund and are not governed by this
        Policy.

        The Director of Finance shall establish a process for daily, monthly, quarterly, and annual
        review and monitoring of the Pooled lnve·stment Fund activity. The following articles, in
        order of supremacy, govern the Pooled Investment Fund:

               1.    California Government Code
               2.    Annual Investment Policy
               3.    Current Investment Guidelines
               4.    Approved Lists (see page 9, Section IX.K)

        The Director of Finance shall review the daily investment activity and corresponding
        bank balances.

        Monthly, the Review Group shall review all investment activity and its compliance to the
        corresponding governing articles and investment objectives.

        All securities purchased, with the exception of bank deposits, money market mutual
        funds, and LAIF, shall be delivered to the independent third-party custodian selected by
        the Director of Finance. This includes all collateral for repurchase agreements. All trades,
        where applicable, will be executed by delivery versus payment by the designated third-
        party custodian.

VIII.   Sacramento County Treasury Oversight Committee
        In accordance with California Government Code section 27130 et seq., the Board of
        Supervisors, in consultation with the Director of Finance, has created the Sacramento
        County Treasury Oversight Committee (Oversight Committee). Annually, the Oversight
        Committee shall cause an audit to be conducted on the Pooled Investment Fund. The
        meetings of the Oversight Committee shall be open to the public and subject to the
        Ralph M. Brown Act.

                                                                                            Page 3

                                                                                                  P17
Annual Investment Policy of the Pooled Investment Fund                       Calendar Year 2026


       A member of the Oversight Committee may not be employed by an entity that has
       contributed to the campaign of a candidate for the office of local treasurer, or contributed
       to the campaign of a candidate to be a member of a legislative body of any local agency
       that has deposited funds in the county treasury, in the previous three years or during the
       period that the employee is a member of the Oversight Committee. A member may not
       directly or indirectly raise money for a candidate for local treasurer or a member of the
       Sacramento County Board of Supervisors or governing board of any local agency that
       has deposited funds in the county treasury while a member of the Oversight Committee.
       Finally, a member may not secure employment with, or be employed by bond
       underwriters, bond counsel, security brokerages or dealers, or financial services firms,
       with whom the treasurer is doing business during the period that the person is a member
       of the Oversight Committee or for one year after leaving the committee.

      \ The Oversight Committee is not allowed to direct individual investment decisions, select
        individual investment advisors, brokers or dealers, or impinge on the day-to-day
        operations of the Department of Finance treasury and investment operations.

IX.    Investment Parameters

       A.     lnvestable Funds
              Total lnvestable Funds (TIF) for purposes of this Policy are all Pooled Investment
              Fund moneys that are available for investment at any one time, including the
              estimated bank account float. Included in TIF are funds of outside investors, if
              applicable, for which the Director of Finance provides investment services.
              Excluded from TIF are all funds held in separate portfolios.

              The Cash Flow Horizon is the period in which the Pooled Investment Fund cash
              flow can be reasonably forecasted. This Policy establishes the Cash Flow Horizon
              to be one (1) year.

              Once the Director of Finance has deemed that the cash flow forecast can be met,
              the Director of Finance may invest funds in securities with maturities beyond one
              year. These securities will be referred to as the Core Portfolio.

       B.     Authorized Investments
              Authorized investments shall match the general categories established by the
              California Government Code sections 53601 et seq. and 53635 et seq. Authorized
              investments shall include, in accordance with California Government Code section
              16429.1, investments into LAIF. Authorization for specific instruments within these
              general categories, as well as narrower portfolio concentration and maturity limits,
              will be established and maintained by the Investment Group as part of the
              Investment Guidelines. As the California Government Code is amended, this
              Policy shall likewise become amended.




Page4

                                                                                                      P18
Annual Investment Policy of the Pooled Investment Fund                                                 Calendar Year 2026


      C.     Prohibited Investments
             No investments shall be authorized that have the possibility of returning a zero or
             negative yield if held to maturity except for securities issued by, or backed by, the
             United States government during a period of negative market interest rates.
             Prohibited investments shall include inverse floaters, range notes, and interest
             only strips derived from a p_ool of mortgages.

             All legal investments issued by a tobacco-related company are prohibited. A
             tobacco-related company is defined as an entity that makes smoking products
             from tobacco used in cigarettes, cigars, or snuff or for smoking in pipes. The
             tobacco-related issuers restricted from any investment are any component
             companies in the Dow Jones U.S. Tobacco Index or the NYSE Arca Tobacco
             Index.

      D.     Credit Requirements
             Except for municipal obligations and Community Reinvestment Act (CRA)
             deposits, the issuer's short-term credit ratings shall be at or above A-1 by
             Standard & Poor's, P-1 by Moody's, and, if available, F1 by Fitch, and the issuer's
             long-term credit ratings shall be at or above A by Standard & Poor's, A2 by
             Moody's, and, if available, A by Fitch. There are no credit requirements for
             Registered State Warrants. All other municipal obligations shall be at or above a
             short-term rating of SP-1 by Standard & Poor's, MIG1 by Moody's, and, if
             available, F1 by Fitch.

                      Community Reinvestment Act Program Credit Requirements


             Maximum Amount                                         Minimun;i Requirements

                                           Banks -         FDIC Insurance Coverage
             Up to the FDIC- or      -----------------------------------         ---------·---------        -----------------------
               NCUSIF-insured              Credit Unions -             NCUSIF Insurance Coverage
             limit for the term of
                                           Credit unions are limited to a maximum deposit of the NCUSIF-insured limit
                  the deposit              since they are not rated by nationally recognized rating agencies and are not
                                           required to provide collateral on public deposits.

                                          (Any 2 of 3 ratings)
                                          S&P:          A-2
                                                                                     Through a private sector entity
              Over the FDIC- or            Moody's:     P-2                          that assists in the placement of
              NCUSIF-insured              Fitch:        F-2                 OR          deposits to achieve FDIC
                     limit                                                            insurance coverage of the full
                                                                                      deposit and accrued interest.

                                           Collateral is required




                                                                                                                       Page 5

                                                                                                                                 P19
Annual Investment Policy of the Pooled Investment Fund                                                         Calendar Year 2026


               Eligible banks must have Community Reinvestment Act performance ratings of
               "satisfactory" or "outstanding" from their federal regulator. In addition, deposits
               greater than the federally-insured amount must be collateralized. Banks must
               either have a letter of credit issued by the Federal Home Loan Bank of San
               Francisco or place securities worth between 110% and 150% of the value of the
               deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the Home Loan Bank of
               San Francisco, or a trust bank.

               Since credit unions do not have Community Reinvestment Act performance
               ratings, they must demonstrate a commitment to community reinvestment lending
               and charitable activities comparable to what is required of banks.

               All commercial paper and medium-term note issues must be issued by
               corporations operating within the United States and having total assets in excess'
               of one billion dollars ($1,000,000,000).

               The Investment Group may raise these credit standards as part of the Investment
               Guidelines and Approved Lists. Appendix A provides a Comparison and
               Interpretation of Credit Ratings by Standard & Poor's, Moody's, and Fitch.

        E.      Maximum Maturities
                Due to the nature of the invested funds, no investment with limited market liquidity
                should be used. Appropriate amounts of highly-liquid investments, such as U.S.
                Treasury and Agency obligations, should be maintained to accommodate
                unforeseen withdrawals.

                The maximum maturity, determined as the term from the date of ownership to the
                date of maturity, for each investment shall be established as follows :

                    U.S. Treasury and Agency Obligations ..................................................... 5 years
                    Washington Supranational Obligations1.................................................... 5 years
                    Municipal Notes ........................................................................................ 5 years
                    Registered State Warrants ........................................................................ 5 years
                    Bankers Acceptances ............................................................................ 180 days
                    Commercial Paper ....................................................................... .......... 270 days
                    Negotiable Certificates of Deposit... .......... ............................................. 270 days
                    CRA Bank Deposit/Certificates of Deposit .................................................. 1 year
                    Repurchase Agreements .......................................................................... .. 1 year
                    Reverse Repurchase Agreements ........................................................... 92 days
                    Medium-Term Corporate Notes.............................................................. 180 days
                    Collateralized Mortga9e Obligations ...................................................... 180 days


1 The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, International Finance Corporation, and Inter-
American Development Bank.


Page 6

                                                                                                                                       P20
Annual Investment Policy of the Pooled lnvest~ent Fund                                                     Calendar Year 2026


             The Investment Group may reduce these maturity limits to a shorter term as part
             of the Investment Guidelines and the Approved Lists.

             The ultimate maximum maturity of any investment shall be five (5) years. The
             dollar-weighted average maturity of all securities shall be equal to or less than
             three (3) years.

      F.     Maximum Concentrations
             No more than 80% of the portfolio may be invested in issues other than U.S.
             Treasury and Agency obligations. The maximum allowable percentage for each
             type of security is set forth as follows:

                U.S. Treasury and Agency Obligations ........................................................ 100%
                Municipal Notes................................................................... .......................... 80%
                Registered State Warrants ......... ................................................... ................80%
                Bankers Acceptances .................................................................................... 40%
                Commercial Paper ......................................... ............................................... 40%
                Washington Supranational Obligations.......................................................... 30%
                Negotiable Certificates of Deposit and CRA Deposit/Certificates of Deposit . 30%
                Repurchase Agreements ............................................................................... 30%
                Reverse Repurchase Agreements ................................ ................................ 20%
                Medium-Term Corporate Notes ..................................................................... 30%
                Money Market Mutual Funds .........................................................................20%
                Collateralized Mortgage Obligations .............................................................. 20%
                Local Agency Investment Fund (LAIF) ......................................... (per State limit)
             The Investment Group may reduce these concentrations as part of the Investment
             Guidelines and the Approved Lists.

             Excluding U.S. Treasury and Agency and Washington Supranational obligations,
             no more than 10% of the portfolio, may be invested in securities of a single issuer
             including its related entities.

             Where a percentage limitation is established above, for the purpose of
             determining investment compliance, that maximum percentage will be applied on
             the date of purchase.

       G.    Repurchase Agreements
             Under California Government Code section 53601, paragraph U) and section
             53635, the Director of Finance may enter into Repurchase Agreements and
             Reverse Repurchase Agreements. The maximum maturity of a Repurchase
             Agreement shall be one year. The maximum maturity of a reverse repurchase
             agreement shall be 92 days, and the proceeds of a reverse repurchase
             agreement may not be invested beyond the expiration of the agreement. The
             reverse repurchase agreement must be "match ed to maturity" and meet all other
             requirements in the code.
                                                                                     Page 7

                                                                                                                                    P21
Annual Investment Policy of the Pooled Investment Fund                       Calendar Year 2026


             All repurchase agreements must have an executed Sacramento County Master
             Repurchase Agreement on file with both the Director of Finance and the
             Broker/Dealer. Repurchase Agreements executed with approved broker-dealers
             must be collateralized with either: (1) U.S. Treasury and Agency obligations with a
             market value of 102% for collateral marked to market daily; or (2) money market
             instruments on the Approved Lists of the County that meet the qualifications of the
             Policy, with a market value of 102%. Since the market value of the underlying
             securities is subject to daily market fluctuations, investments in repurchase
             agreements shall be in compliance if the value of the underlying securities is
             brought back up to 102% no later than the next business day. Use of mortgage-
             backed securities for collateral is not permitted. Strictly for purposes of investing
             the daily excess bank balance, the collateral provided by the Sacramento
             County's depository bank can be U.S. Treasury and Agency obligations valued at
             110%, or mortgage-backed securities valued at 150%.

      H.     Community Reinvestment Act Program
             The Director of Finance has allocated within the Pooled Investment Fund, a
             maximum of $90 million for the Community Reinvestment Act Program to
             encourage community investment by financial institutions, which includes
             community banks and credit unions, and to acknowledge and reward local
             financial institutions that support the community's financial needs. The Director of
             Finance may increase this amount, as appropriate, while staying within the
             investment policy objectives and maximum maturity and concentration limits. The
             eligible banks and savings banks must have Community Reinvestment Act
             performance ratings of "satisfactory" or "outstanding" from each financial
             institution's regulatory authority. The minimum credit requirements are located on
             page 5 of Section IX.D.

      I.     Criteria and Qualifications of Brokers/Dealers and Direct Issuers
             All transactions initiated on behalf of the Pooled Investment Fund and
             Sacramento County shall be executed through either government security dealers
             reporting as primary dealers to the Market Group of the Federal Reserve Bank of
             New York or direct issuers that directly issue their own securities that have been
             placed on the Approved List of brokers/dealers and direct issuers. Further, these
             firms must have an investment grade rating from at least two national rating
             services, if available.

             Brokers/Dealers and direct issuers that have exceeded the political contribution
             limits, as contained in Rule G-37 of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board,
             within the preceding four-year period to the Director of Finance, any member of
             the Board of Supervisors, or any candidate for the Board of Supervisors, are
             prohibited from the Approved List of brokers/dealers and direct issuers.

             Each broker/dealer and direct issuer will be sent a copy of this Policy and a list of
             those persons authorized to execute investment transactions. Each firm must

Page 8

                                                                                                     P22
Annual Investment Policy of the Pooled Investment Fund                       Calendar Year 2026


             acknowledge receipt of such materials to qualify for the Approved List of
             brokers/dealers and direct issuers.

             Each broker/dealer and direct issuer authorized to do business with Sacramento
             County shall, at least annually, supply the Director of Finance with audited
             financial statements.

      J.     Investment Guidelines, Management Style and Strategy
             The Investment Group shall issue and maintain Investment Guidelines specifying
             authorized investments, credit requirements, permitted transactions, and issue
             maturity and concentration limits consistent with this Policy.

             The Investment Group shall also issue a statement describing the investment
             management style and current strategy for the entire investment program. The
             management style and strategy can be changed to accommodate shifts in the
             financial markets, but at all times they must be consistent with this Policy and its
             objectives.

       K.    Approved Lists
             The Investment Group·, named by the Director of Finance, shall issue and
             maintain various Approved Lists. These lists are:

             1.     Approved Domestic Banks for all legal investments.
             2.     Approved Foreign Banks for all legal investments.
             3.     Approved Commercial Paper and Medium Term Note Issuers.
             4.     Approved Money Market Mutual Funds.
             5.     Approved Firms for Purchase or Sale of Securities (Brokers/Dealers and
                    Direct Issuers).
             6.     Approved Banks/ Credit Unions for the Community Reinvestment Act
                    Program.

       L.    Calculation of Yield and Costs
             The costs of managing the investment portfolio, including but not limited to:
             investment management; accounting for the investment activity; custody of the
             assets; managing and accounting for the banking; receiving and remitting
             deposits; oversight controls; and indirect and overhead expenses are charged to
             the investment earnings based upon actual labor hours worked in respective
             areas. Costs of these respective areas are accumulated by specific cost
             accounting projects and charged to the Pooled Investment Fund on a quarterly
             basis throughout the fiscal year.

             The Department of Finance will allocate the net interest earnings of the Pooled
             Investment Fund quarterly. The net interest earnings are allocated based upon the
             average daily cash balance of each Pooled Investment Fund participant.


                                                                                           Page 9

                                                                                                    P23
Annual Investment Policy of the Pooled Investment Fund                      Calendar Year 2026


X.     Reviewing, Monitoring and Reporting of the Portfolio
       The Review Group will prepare and present to the Director of Finance at least monthly a
       comprehensive review and evaluation of the transactions, positions, performance of the
       Pooled Investment Fund and compliance to the California Government Code, Policy, and
       Investment Guidelines.

       Quarterly, the Director of Finance will provide to the Board of Supervisors, the Oversight
       Committee, and to any local agency participant that requests a copy, a detailed report on
       the Pooled Investment Fund. The report will also be posted on the Department of
       Finance website. Pursuant to California Government Code section 53646, the report will
       list the type of investments, name of issuer, maturity date, par and dollar amount of the
       investment. For the total Pooled Investment Fund, the report will list average maturity,
       the market value, and the pricing source. Additionally, the report will show any funds
       under the management of contracting parties, a statement of compliance to the Policy
       and a statement of the Pooled Investment Fund's ability to meet the expected •
       expenditure requirements for the next six months.

XI.    Withdrawal Requests for Pooled Fund Investors
       The Director of Finance will honor all requests to withdraw funds for normal cash flow
       purposes that are approved by the Director of Finance at a one dollar net asset value.
       Any requests to withdraw funds for purposes other than immediate cash flow needs,
       such as for external investing, are subject to the consent of the Director of Finance. In
       accordance with California Government Code Sections 27133(h) and 27136, such
       requests for withdrawals must first be made in writing to the Director of Finance. When
       evaluating a request to withdraw funds, the Director of Finance will take into account the
       effect of a withdrawal on the stability and predictability of the Pooled Investment Fund
       and the interests of other depositors. Any withdrawal for such purposes will include par
       value and any interest earnings in the Pooled Investment Fund on the date of the
       withdrawal.

XII.   Limits on Honoraria, Gifts, and Gratuities
       In accordance with California Government Code Section 27133(d), this Policy
       establishes limits for the Director of Finance; individuals responsible for management of
       the portfolios; and members of the Investment Group and Review Group who direct
       individual investment decisions, select individual investment advisors and broker/dealers,
       and conduct day-to-day investment trading activity. The limits also apply to members of
       the Oversight Committee. Any individual who receives an aggregate total of gifts,
       honoraria and gratuities in excess of $50 in a calendar year from a broker/dealer, bank or
       service provider to the Pooled Investment Fund must report the gifts, dates and firms to
       the designated filing official and complete the appropriate State forms.

       No individual may receive aggregate gifts, honoraria, and gratuities from any single
       source in a calendar year in excess of the amount specified in Section 18940.2(a) of Title
       2, Division 6 of the California Code of Regulations. This limitation is $630 for the period


Page 10

                                                                                                     P24
Annual Investment Policy of the Pooled Investment Fund                      Calendar Year 2026


        January 1, 2025, to December 31, 2026. Any violation must be reported to the State Fair
        Political Practices Commission.

XIII.   Terms and Conditions for Outside Investors
        Outside investors may invest in the Pooled Investment Fund through California
        Government Code Section 53684. Their deposits are subject to the consent of the
        Director of Finance. The legislative body of the local agency must approve the
        Sacramento County Pooled Investment Fund as an authorized investment and execute a
        Memorandum of Understanding. Any withdrawal of these deposits must be made in
        writing 30 days in advance and will be paid based upon the market value of the Pooled
        Investment Fund. If the Director of Finance considers it appropriate, the deposits may be
        returned at any time to the local agency.




                                                                                        Page 11
    I
                                                                                               P25
                                         A pp endix A


Comparison and Interpretation of Credit Ratings



              Long Term Debt & Individual Bank Ratings

              Rating Interpretation            Moody's     S&P       Fitch


                                                Aaa        AAA       AAA
              Best-quality grade
                                                Aa1        AA+       AA+
              High-quality grade                Aa2        AA        AA
                                                Aa3        AA-       AA-
                                                A1         A+        A+
              Upper Medium Grade                A2         A         A
                                                A3         A-        A-
                                                Baa1       BBB+      BBB+
              Medium Grade                      Baa2       BBB       BBB
                                                Baa3       BBB-      BBB-
                                                 Ba1       BB+       88+
              Speculative Grade                  Ba2       BB        BB
                                                 Ba3       BB-       BB-
                                                 81        B+        B+
              Low Grade                          82        8         B
                                                 83        8-        B-
                                                 Caa       CCC+      CCC
              Poor Grade to Default
                                                 -         CCC       -
              In Poor Standing                   -         CCC-      -
              Highly Speculative                 Ca        cc        cc
              Default                            C         -         -
                                                 -         -         DOD
              Default                            -         -         DD
                                                 -         D         D




   Short Term / Municipal Note Investment Grade Ratings

   Rating Interpretation              Moody's              S&P               Fitch

   Superior Capacity                   MIG-1             SP-1#SP-1           F1+/F1

   Strong Capacity                     MIG-2               SP-2                F2

   Acceptable Capacity                 MIG-3               SP-3                F3




                                                                                      Page 12

                                                                                                P26
                             Appendix A




Short Term / Commercial Paper Investment Grade Ratings

Rating Interpretation     Moody's              S&P       Fitch

Superior Capacity           P-1              A-1+/A-1    F1+/F1

Strong Capacity             P-2                A-2        F2

Acceptable Capacity         P-3                A-3         F3




                                                                  Page 13

                                                                       P27
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone {916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

     1W
ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief



     DATE:        January 22, 2026

     TO:          Board of Directors

     SUBJECT:     FY 2024/25 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR),
                  Accompanying Audit Report, and Government Finance Officers
                  Association Certificate of Achievement

                                            SUMMARY

     The Annu~I Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) for the fiscal year ended
     June 30, 2025 has peen completed and is now ready for presentation to the 13oard
     for review and acceptance.

                                          DISCUSSION

     The Finance Division, with the assistance of other Divisions, annually prepares
     Metro Fire's ACFR; a detailed presentation of Metro Fire's finan~ial condition. The
     ACFR has been audited by Metro Fire's independent c\Uditors, Badawi &
     Associates, and has received an unmodified ("clean") opinion. Along with the
     financial audit, the auditors perform·ed an audit of Metro Fire's compliance with
     grant laws and regulations and determined Metro Fire has complied in all material
     respects. The auditors did not identify any material weakness in Metro Fire's
     internal controls.

     The following reports and letter are included in the Board packets and will be
     discussed by the Metro Fire's independent auditors:
       • Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (with Independent Auditor's Report)
       • Single Audit Reports
            o Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting and on Compliance
            o Report on Compliance for Each Major Program and Report 6n Internal
               Control over Compliance
            o Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards
            o Schedule of Findings and Questioned Costs (None Noted)
       • Report on Appropriations Limit Schedule
       • Governance Letter

     Additionally, in June 2025 Metro Fire was awarded its 11 th consecutive Certificate
     of Achievement for Excellence in Fihancial Reporting by the Government Finance
     Officers Association (GFOA), for .the FY 2023/24 ACFR. To receive a Certificate
     of Achievement, a government must pwblish an easily readable and efficiently


                               Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                                    P28
Page2


        organized ACFR that satisfies generally accepted accounting principles and
        applicable legal requirements.

        The FY 2024/25 ACFR has been submitted to the GFOA for consideration in the
        award program and staff believes that the current ACFR continues to meet the
        Certificate of Achievement award requirements.

                                        FISCAL IMPACT

        There is no direct fiscal impact associated with accepting the reports.


                                      RECOMMENDATION

        Staff recommends that the Board accept and file the reports.



        Submitted by:                                   Approved by:


         a&~
        Dave O' Toole                                   J~o1.~
        Chief Financial Officer                         Deputy Chief, Administration



        Attachments:

           1. FY 2024/25 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report
           2. FY 2024/25 Single Audit Reports
           3. FY 2024/25 Appropriations Limit Report
           4. FY 2024/25 Governance Letter
           5. FY 2023/24 GFOA Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial
              Reporting




                                                                                       P29
       Forged from a long line of tradition...




SEPE
     Sacramento
Metropolitan Fire
         District
                   Sacramento, California




Single Audit Reports
For the year ended June 30, 2025




                                   BADAWI &ASSOCIATl:S
                                   Certified Public Accountants •




                                                                    P31
P32
Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
For the year ended June 30, 2025
Table of Contents




Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting and on
   Compliance and Other Matters Based on an Audit of Financial Statements
   Performed in Accordance with Gover11111ent Auditing Standards ..... .. .................. .. .... ... .... .. .... .. . .. .... . .. . ... . .. .. .. . 1

Report on Compliance for Each Major Program and Report on
   Internal Control over Compliance in Accordance with the Uniform Guidance
   And on the Schedule of Expendihues of Federal Awards ................................................................................ 3

Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards ................................................ ::................................................... 7

Notes to the Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards .............................................................................. 9

Schedule of Findings and Questioned Costs ..................................................................................................... 10




                                                                                                                                                               P33
This page intentionally left blank




                                     P34
         BADAWI & ASSOCIATES
         Certified Public Accountants


REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING AND ON COMPLIANCE AND
   OTHER MATTERS BASED ON AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMED IN
                            ACCORDANCE WITH
                      GOVERNMENT AUDITING STANDARDS

                                                Independent Auditor's Report


To the Board of Directors
   of the Sacramento Meh·opolitan Fire District
Sacramento, California

We have audited, in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America
and the standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing Standards issued by the
Comph'oller General of the United States, the financial statements of the governmental activities, the
business-type activities, the aggregate discretely presented component units, each major fund, and the
aggregate remaining fund information of Sacramento Metropolitan Fire Dish'ict, (District), as of and for the
year ended June 30, 2025, and the related notes to the financial statements, which collectively comprise the
Dish'ict's basic financial statements and have issued our report thereon dated December 5, 2025.

Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
In planning and performing our audit of the financial statements, we considered the District's internal
control over financial reporting (internal conh·ol) as a basis for designing audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances for the purpose of expressing our opinions on the financial statements, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the District's internal conh'ol.
Accordingly, we do not express an opinion on the effectiveness of the District's internal conh·ol.

  A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management
. or employees in the normal course of p erforming their assigned functions, to prevent, or detect and correct
  misstatements on a timely basis. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in
  internal control, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity's
  financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and corrected on a timely basis. A significant
  deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control that is less severe than a
  material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance.

Our consideration of internal control was for the limited purpose described in the preceding paragraph and
was not designed to identify all deficiencies in internal control that might be material weaknesses or
significant deficiencies. Given these limitations, during our audit we did not identify any deficiencies in
internal conh·ol that we consider to be material weaknesses. However, material weaknesses or significant
deficiencies may exist that have not been identified.




                 Address: 5901 Christie Avenue, Suite 307, Emerylille, CA 94608 • Phone: 510.768.8251 • Fax: 510.768.8249


                                                                                                                            P35
To the Board of Directors
  of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Sacramento, California
Page2


Compliance and Other Matters
As part of obtaining reasonable assurance about whether the District's financial statements are free from
material misstatement, we performed tests of its compliance with certain provisions of laws, regulations,
contracts, and grant agreements, noncompliance with which could have a direct and material effect on the
financial statements. However, providing an opinion on compliance with those provisions was not an
objective of our audit, and accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. The results of our tests
disclosed no instances of noncompliance or other matters that are required to be reported under Govemment
Auditing Standards.

Purpose of this Report
The purpose of this report is solely to describe the scope of our testing of internal control and compliance
and the i·esults of that testing, and not to provide an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity's internal
control or on compliance. This report is an integral part of an audit performed in accordance with
Government Auditing Standards in considering the entity's internal control and compliance. Accordingly, this
communication is not suitable for any other' purpose.                 '




Badawi & Associates, CPAs
Emeryville, California
December 5, 2025




                                                    2                                                      P36
        BADAWI &ASSOCIATES
        Certified Public Accountants



      REPORT ON COMPLIANCE FOR EACH MAJOR PROGRAM AND REPORT ON INTERNAL
     CONTROL OVER COMPLIANCE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE UNIFORM GUIDANCE AND
               ON THE SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES OF FEDERAL AWARDS

                                                  Independent Auditor's Report


To the Board of Directors
   of the Sacrament Meh·opolitan Fire Dish'ict
Sacramento, California

                                                      '
Report on Compliance for Each Major Federal Program
Opinion on Each Major Federal Program
We have audited the Sacramento Meh'opolitan Fire Dish·ict, (Dish'ict) compliance with the types of
compliance requirements described in the 0MB Compliance Supplement that could have a direct and material
effect on each of the Dish'ict's major federal programs for the year ended June 30, 2025. The Dish'ict's major
federal program is identified in the summary of auditor's results section of the accompanying schedule of
findings and questioned costs.

In our opinion, the Dish'ict complied, in all material respects, with the types of compliance requirements
referred to above that could have a direct and material effect on each of its major federal programs for the
year ended June 30, 2025.

Basis for Opinion on Each Major Federal Program

We conducted our audit of compliance in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States of America; the standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing
Standards, issued by the Comph·oller General of the United States; and the audit requirements of Title 2 U.S.
Code of Federal Regulations Pait 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit
Requirements for Federal Awards (Uniform Guidance). Our responsibilities under those standards and the
Uniform Guidance are further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities for tl1e Audit of Compliance
section of our report.

We are required to be independent of the Dish'ict and to meet our otl1er efuical responsibilities, in
accordance witl1 relevant efuical requirements relating to our audit. We believe that tl1e audit evidence we
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on compliance for each major
federal program. Our audit does not provide a legal determination of the Dish'ict's compliance with tl1e
compliance requirements referred to above.




                 Address: 5901 Christie Avenue, Suite 307, Emery1ille, CA 94608 • Phone: 510.768.8251 • Fax: 510.768.8249


                                                                                                                            P37
To the Board of Directors
 of the Sacramento Meh'opolitan Fire Dish'ict
Sacramento, California
Page4

Responsibilities of Management for Compliance
Management is responsible for compliance with the requirements referred to above and for the design,
implementation, and maintenance of effective internal conh'ol over compliance with the requirements of
laws, statutes, regulations, rules, and provisions of conh·acts or grant agreements applicable to the Dish·ict' s
federal programs.
Auditor'~ Responsibilities for the Audit of Compliance
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether material noncompliance with the
compliance requirements referred to above occurred, whether due to fraud or error, and express an opinion
on the Dish·ict's compliance based on our audit. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not
absolute assurance and therefore is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards, Government Auditing Standards, and the Uniform Guidance will always
detect material noncompliance when it exists. The risk of not detecting material noncompliance resulting
from fraud is higher than for that resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal cdnh'ol. Noncompliance with the compliance
requirements referred to above is considered material if there is a substantial likelihood that, individually or
in the aggregate, it would influence the judgment made by a reasonable user of the report on compliance
about the Dish·ict' s compliance with the requirements of each major federal program as a whole
In performing an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, Government Auditing
Standards, and the Uniform Guidance, we:

    •   Exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism tlU'oughout the audit.

    •   Identify and assess the risks of material noncompliance, whether due to fraud or error, and design
        and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks. Such procedures include examining, on a
        test basis, evidence regarding tl1e Dish'ict' s compliance with tl1e compliance requirements referred
        to above and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

    •   Obtain an understanding of the Dish'ict' s internal control over compliance relevant to the audit in
        order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances and to test and report on
        internal conh·ol over compliance in accordance with the Uniform Guidance, but not for the purpose
        of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the District's internal conh·ol over . compliance.
        Accordingly, no such opinion is expressed.

We are required to communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the
planned scope and timing of the audit and any significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in internal
conh·ol over compliance that we identified during the audit.




                                                      4                                                        P38
To the Board of .Directors
  of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Sacramento, California
Page5

Report on Internal Control over Compliance

A deficiency in internal control over compliance exists when the design or operation of a conh·ol over
compliance does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned
functions, to prevent, or detect and correct, noncompliance with a type of compliance requirement of a
federal program on a timely basis. A material weakness in internal control over compliance is a deficiency, or a
combination of deficiencies, in internal conh·ol over compliance, such that there is a reasonable possibility
that material noncompliance with a type of compliance requirement of a federal program will not be
prevented, or detected and corrected, on a timely basis. A significant deficiency in internal control over
compliance is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over compliance with a type
of compliance requirement of a federal program that is less severe than a material weakness in internal
conh·ol over compliance, yet important enough to merit attention oy those charged with governance.

Our consideratio~ of internal control over compliance was for the limited purpose described in the
Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of Compliance section above and was not designed to identify all
deficiencies in internal conh·ol· over compliance that might be material weaknesses or significant
deficiencies in internal control over compliance. Given these limitations, during our audit. we did not
identify any deficiencies in internal conh·ol over compliance that we consider to be material weaknesses, as
defined above. However, material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control over compliance
may exist that were not identified.

Our audit was not designed for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control
over compliance. Accordingly, no such opinion is expressed.

The purpose of this report on internal control over compliance is solely to describe the scope of our testing
of internal control over compliance and the results of that testing based on the requirements of the Uniform
Guidance. Accordingly, this report is not suitable for any other purpose.




                                                                                                                   '   •




                                                      5                                                       P39
To the Board of Directors
 of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Sacramento, California
Page 6

Report on Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awru:ds Required by the Uniform Guidance

We have audited the financial statements of the governmental activities, each major fund, and the aggregate
remaining fund information of the District, as of and for the year ended June 30, 2025, and the related notes
to the financial statements, which collectively comprise the District's basic financial statements. We issued
our report thereon dated December 5, 2025, which contained unmodified opinions on those financial
statements. Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming opinions on the financial statements that
collectively comprise the basic financial statements. The accompanying schedule of expenditures of federal
awards is presented for purposes of additional analysis as required by the Uniform Guidance and is not a
required part of the basic financial statements. Such information is the responsibility of management and
was derived from and relates directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the
basic financial statements. The information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the
audit of the financial statements and certain additional procedures, including comparing and reconciling
such information directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the basic financial
statements or to the basic financial statements themselves, and other additional procedures in accordance
with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. In our opinion, the schedule of
expenditures of federal awards is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the basic financial
statements as a whole.




Badawi & Associates, CPAs
Emeryville, California
December 19, 2025, except for the schedule of expenditures
of federal awards, which are as of December 5, 2025




                                                    6                                                     P40
Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Single Audit Report
Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards
For the year ended June 30, 2025

                                                                                   Federal
                                                                                  Assistance    Agency or
                         Federal Granter/Pass-Through                              Listing     Pass-Through         Federal
                             Grantor Program Title                                 Number        Number           Expenditures

U.S. De2arhnent of Homeland Security
Direct Program
    Public Assistance Grant DR-4683                                                 97.036                    $           5,548

        Program subtotal                                                                                                  5,548

    Fire Prevention and Safety - FP&S 2021                                          97.044                               66,741
    Fire Prevention and Safety - FP&S 2023                                          97.044                              101,930
    Assistance to Firefighters Grant - COVID                                        97.044                              182,189

        Program subtotal                                                                                                350,860

    Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response - SAFER 2020                  97.083                             1,511,126

    Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response - SAFER 2023                  97.083                              267,962

        Program subtotal                                                                                               1,779,088

Passed-tlrro11glr tire Stale of California Emergency Management Age11C1J
  n11d the Cormty of Sncrnmento, Office of E111erge11C1J Services
    State Homeland Secmity Grant Program - SHSGP 2023                               97.067     YZL9FJW2JSH6              91,895

         Program subtotal                                                                                                 91,895

           Total U.S. Department of Homeland Security                                                                  2,227,391

U.S. De2artment of Treasury
Passed-tlrro11glr tire CormhJ ofSacramento, Office of E111ergenC1J Services
    Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund                                          21.027     YZL9FJW2JSH6               95,391
           Total U.S. Deparhnent of Treasury                                                                              95,391

             Total Expenditures of Federal Awards                                                             $        2,322,782




See accompanying Notes to the Schedule of Expenditure of Federal Awards
                                                                              7                                                    P41
Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Notes to the Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards
For the year ended June 30, 2025


A. Reporting Entity

   The Sacramento Meh·opolitan Fire Dish·ict' s (Dish'ict) reporting entity is defined in Note #1 of the
   Dish'ict' s basic financial statements. All federal awards received directly from federal agencies, as well
   as federal awards passed through other governmental agencies to the Dish'ict if any, are included in the
   accompanying schedule.

B. Basis of Accounting

   Funds received under the various grant programs have been recorded with separated account codes.
   The accompanying Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards has been prepared on the modified
   accrual basis of accounting. Modified accrual accounting recognizes revenues when tl1ey become
   available and measurable and, with few exceptions, recognizes expenditures when liabilities are
   incurred.

C. Relationship of Schedule of Expenditmes of Federal Awards to Financial Statements

   The accompanying Schedule presents the activity of all federal financial assistance programs of the
   Disb·ict. Federal financial assistance received directly from federal agencies as well as federal financial
   assistance passed through the State of California is included in the Schedule.

   The Schedule was prepared ortly from the accounts of various grant programs and, therefore, does not
   present the financial position or results of operations of the Dish'ict.

D. Pass-Through Entities' Identifying Number

   When federal awards were received from a pass-through entity, the Schedule shows, if available, the
   identifying number assigned by the pass-through entity. When no identifying number is shown, th e
   Dish'ict determined that no identifying number is assigned for the program or the Dish'ict was unable to
   obtain an identifying number from the pass-through entity.

E. Indirect Costs·

   The Dish'ict did not elect to use the 10% de minimis indirect cost rate.




                                                     8                                                      P42
Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Single Audit Reports
Schedule of Findings and Questioned Costs
For the year ended June 30, 2025


Section I - Summary of Auditor's Results

Financial Statements

Types of auditor's report issued:                                               Unmodified

Internal contl'Ol over financial reporting:

    •   Material weakness(es) identified?                                       No

    •   Significant deficiency(ies) identified?                                 None noted

Any noncompliance material to the financial statements noted?                   No

Federal Awards

Internal conh'ol over major programs:

    •   Material weakness(es) identified?                                       No

    •   Significant deficiency(ies) identified? •                               None noted

Type of auditor's report issued on compliance for major programs                Unmodified

Any audit findings disclosed that are required to be reported in
Accordance with section 200.516(a)                                              No

Identification of major programs:

           Federal ALN                   Name of Federal Program or Cluster           Expenditures
              97.083       Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response          $ 1,779,088
                           Total Expenditures of All Major Federal Programs           $ 1,779,088
                           Total Expenditures of Federal Awards                       $ 2,322,782
                           Percentage of Total Expenditures of Federal Awards                 77%


Dollar threshold used to distinguish between type A and type B program          $750,000

Auditee qualified as low-risk auditee under
section 200.520?                                                                Yes




                                                       9                                             P43
Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Single Audit Reports
Schedule of Findings and Questioned Costs
For the year ended June 30, 2025


Section II - Financial Statement Findings

   No financial statements findings in the current year or in the prior year

Section III - Federal Award Program Audit Findings

A. Current Year Findings and Questioned Costs - Major Federal Award Program Audit

   No findings or questioned costs were noted in the current year.

B. Prior Year Findings and Questioned Costs - Major Federal Award Program Audit

   No findings or questioned costs were noted in the prior year.




                                                    10                              P44
     Sacramento
Metropolitan Fire
         District
                 Sacramento, California




Independent Accountants' Report on
Agreed-Upon Procedures Applied to
Appropriation Limit Schedule

For the year endedfune 30, 2025


                                    BADAWI &ASSOCIATES
                                    Certified Public Accountants




                                                                   P45
P46
          BADAWI & ASSOCIATES
          Certified Public Accountants



                                   INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS' REPORT

To the Board of Directors
  of the Sacramento Meb·opolitan Fire Dish'ict
Sacramento, California

We have performed the procedures enumerated below on the accompanying Appropriations Limit Schedule
of the Sacramento Meh'opolitan Fire Dish'ict (the Disb·ict) for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025. The Dish'ict' s
management is responsible for the accompanying Appropriations Limit Schedule.

The Dish'ict has agreed to and acknowledged that the procedures performed are appropriate to meet the
intended purpose of the requirements of Section 1.5 of Article XIII-B of the California Constitution.
Additionally, the League of C_alifornia Cities (as presented in the publication entitled Agreed-upon Procedures
Applied to the Appropriations Limitation Prescribed by Article XIII-B of the California Constitution) has
agreed to and acknowledged that the procedures performed are appropriate for their purposes. This report
may not be suitable for any other purpose. The procedures performed may not address all the items of interest
to a user of this report and may not meet the needs·of all users of this report and, as such, users are responsible
for determining whether the procedures performed are appropriate for their purposes.

The procedures performed and our findings are described below:

     1. We obtained the completed worksheets used by the District to calculate its appropriations limit for
        the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025, and determined that the limit and annual calculation factors were
        adopted by resolution of the Boa!·d of Directors.

         Finding: No exceptions were noted as a result of our procedures.

     2. For the accompanying Appropriations Limit Schedule, we added tl1e prior yeals limit to the total
        adjustments, and agreed the resulting amount to the current year's limit.

         Finding: No exceptions were noted as a result of our procedures.

     3. We agreed the current year information presented in the accompanying Appropriations Limit
        Schedule to corresponding information in worksheets used by the Dish'ict.

         Finding: No exceptions were noted as a result of our procedures.

     4. We agreed the prior year appropriations limit presented in the accompanying Appropriations Limit
        Schedule to the prior year appropriations limit adopted by the Board of Directors during the prior
        year.
         Finding: No exceptions were noted as a result of our procedures.




                   Address: 5901 Christie Avenue, Suite 307, Emery1ille, CA 94608 • Phone: 510.768.8251 • Fax: 510.768.8249


                                                                                                                              P47
To the Board of Directors
 of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Sacramento, California


We were engaged by the District to perform this agreed-upon procedures engagement and conducted our
engagement in accordance with attestation standards established by the AICPA. We were not engaged to and
did not conduct an examination or review, the objective of which would be the expression of an opinion or
conclusion, respectively, on the accompanying Appropriation Limit Schedule. Accordingly, we do not express
such an opinion or conclusion. Had we performed additional procedures, other matters might have come to
                                                                                                 1
our attention that would have been reported to you.             •

We are required to be independent of the District and to meet our other ethical responsibilities, in accordance
with the relevant ethical requirements related to our agreed-upon procedures engagement.

This report is intended solely for the information and use of the Board of Directors and management of the
District and is not intended to be and should not be used by anyone other than these specified parties.
However, this report is a matter of public record, and its dish·ibution is not limited.




Badawi & Associates, CPAs
Emeryville, California
December 5, 2025




                                                      2                                                      P48
Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Appropriations Limit Schedule
For the year ended June 30, 2025




                                                                   Amount                   Source

A. Appropriations limit for the year ended June 30, 2024       $    438,075,319       Prior year schedule

B. Calculation Factors:
   1. Population increase%                                               0.9972   State Department of Finance
   2. Inflation increase %                                               1.0362   State Department of Finance
   3. Total adjusbnent factor %                                          1.0333           B3 = Bl*B2

C. Annual Adjustment Increase                                        14,587,908           [(B3-l)A)]

D. Other Adjustments                                                                         N/A

E. Total Adjustments                                                 14,587,908             (C+D)


F. Appropriations limit for the year ended June 30, 2025       $    452,663,227              (A+E)




                                                           3                                                    P49
Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Notes to Appropriations Limit Schedule
For the year ended June 30, 2025


1. PURPOSE OF LIMITED PROCEDURES REVIEW

   Under Article XIIIB of the California Constitution (the Gann Spending Limitation Initiative), California
   governmental agencies are resh'icted as to the amount of annual appropriations from proceeds of taxes.
   Effective for years beginning on or after July 1, 1990, under Section 1.5 of Article XIIIB, the annual calculation
   of the appropriations limit is subject to this agreed upon procedures engagement.


2. METHOD OF CALC.ULATION

   Under Section 10.5 of Article XIIIB, for fiscal years beginning on or after July 1990, the appropriations limit
   is required to be calculated based on the limit for the fiscal year 1986-1987, adjusted for the inflation and
   population factors discussed in Notes 3 and 4 below. •


3. INFLATION FACTORS

   A California governmental agency may use as its inflation factor either the annual percentage change in the
   40, quarter per capita personal income (which percentage is supplied by the State Deparhnent of Finance),
   or the percentage change in the local assessment roll from the preceding year due to the change of local
   nonresidential consh·uction. The factor adopted by the Sacramento Meh'opolitan Fire Disb'ict for the fiscal
   year 2025 1;epresents the change in per capita income in the State of California.

4. POPULATION FACTORS

   A California govei'nmental agency may use as its population factor either the annual percentage change of
   the jurisdiction's own population, or the annual percentage change in population in the County where the
   jurisdiction is located. The factor adopted by the Sacramento Meh·opolitan Fire Dish·ict for fiscal year 2025
   represents the population change in the jurisdiction covered by the Dish'ict.


5. OTHER ADJUSTMENTS

   A California government agency may be required to adjust its appropriations limit when certain events
   occur, such as the h'ansfer of responsibility for municipal services to, or from, another government agency
   or private entity. The Dish'ict had no such adjushnents for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2025.




                                                         4                                                         P50
     Sacramento
Metropolitan Fire
         District
                  Sacramento, California




Auditor's Communication with
Those Charged with Governance

For the year ended June 301 2025

                                   )




                                   ~-~ W.~I BADAWI &ASSOCIATES
                                          Certified PublicAqcountants




                                                                        P51
la
[" n     BADAWI & ASSOCIATES
         Certified Public Accountants

 December 5, 2025

 To the Board of Directors
  of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
 Sacramento, California

 We have audited the financial statements of the Sacramento Metropolitan Ffre District (District) as of and
 for the year ended June 30, 2025, and have issued our report thereon dated December 5, 2025. Professional
 standards require that we advise you of the following matters relating to our audit.

 Our Responsibility in Relation to the Financial Statement Audit and ~he Single Audit

 As communicated in our engagement letter dated July 13, 2025, our responsibility, as described by
 professional standards, is to form and express an opinion about whether the financial statements that
 have been prepared by management with your oversight are presented fairly, in all material respects, in
 accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our audit of
 the financial statements does not relieve you or management of your respective responsibilities.

 Our responsibility, as prescribed by professional standards, is to plan and perform our audit to obtain
 reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
 misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes consideration of the system internal conh·ol over
 financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances,
 but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity's internal control over
 financial reporting. Accordingly, as part of our audit, we considered the system the internal control of
 the District solely for the purpose of determining our audit procedures and not to provide any assurance
 concerning such internal control.

 We also considered internal control over compliance with requirements that could have a direct and
 material effect on a major federal program in order to determine our auditing procedures for the purpose
 of expressing our opinion on compliance and to test and report on internal conh·ol over compliance in
 accordance with the Uniform Guidance.

 We are also responsible for communicating significant matters related to the audit that are, in our
 professional judgment, relevant to your responsibilities in overseeing the financial reporting process.
 However, we are not required to design procedures for the purpose of identifying other matters to
 communicate to you.

 Planned Scope and Timing of the Audit

 We conducted our audit consistent with the planned scope and timing we previously communicated to
 you.




                 Address: 5901 Christie Avenue, Suite 307, Emerylille, r.A 94608 • Phone: 51 0.768.8251 • Fax: 510.768.8249


                                                                                                                              P52
To the Board of Directors
  of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire Dish'ict
Sacramento, California
Page2

Compliance with All Ethics Requirements Regarding Independence

The engagement team, others in our firm, as appropriate, our firm, and our network firms have complied
with all relevant ethical requirements regarding independence.

Significant Risks Identified

We have identified the following significant risks:

   •    Risk of Management Override of Internal Controls - A risk of management override of internal
        controls exists at any entity where management can change or decide not to perform that entity's
        internal controls.
    •   Revenue Recognition Risk , Errors in revenue recognition can affect bond covenant ratios and the
        net position of the Dish'ict.

Qualitative Aspects of the Entity's Significant Accounting Practices

Significant Accounting Policies

Management has the responsibility to select and use appropriate accounting policies. A summary of the
significant accounting policies adopted by the Dish'ict is included in Note 1 to the financial statements.
There have been no initial selection of accounting policies and no changes in significant accounting
policies or their application during the year ended June 30, 2025. No matters have come to our attention
             I
that would require us, under professional standards, to inform you about (1) the methods used to account
for significant unusual transactions and (2) the effect of significant accounting policies in conh'oversial
or emerging areas for which there is a lack of authoritative guidance or consensus.

Significant Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures

Accounting estimates and related disclosures are an integral part of the financial statements prepared by
management and are based on management's current judgments. Those judgments are normally based
on knowledge and experience about past and current events and assumptions about future events.
Certain accounting estimates are particularly sensitive because of their significance to the financial
statements and because of the possibility that future events affecting them may differ markedly from
management's current judgments.

The most sensitive accounting estimates affecting the financial statements are capital assets depreciation
and useful life, claims payable, and pension and other post-employment benefits (OPEB) plan
assumptions.
Management's estimate of capital assets depreciation and useful life are based on historical useful lives
of such asses. Estimates of claims payable, and pension and OPEB plans are based on actuarial
assumptions. We evaluated the key factors and assumptions used to develop the estimate of capital assets
depreciation and useful life, claims payable, and pension and OPEB plan assumptions and determined
that they are reasonable in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole and in relation to
the applicable opinion units.



                                                                                                              P53
To the Board of Directors
 of the Sacramento Meb:opolitan Fire Dish·ict
Sacramento, California
Page3

Financial Statement Disclosures

Certain financial statement disclosures involve significant judgment and are particularly sensitive
because of their significance to financial statement users. The most sensitive disclosures affecting the
Disb:ict' s financial statements relate to:

   •   Summaiy of Significant Accounting Policies
   •   Cash and Investments
   •   Long-term Debt
   •   Capital Assets
   •   Employee Retirement Plans
   •   Other Post-Employment Benefits

Significant Difficulties Encountered during the Audit

We encountered no significant difficulties in dealing with management relating to the performance of
the audit.

Uncorrected and Corrected Missta~ements

For purposes of this communication, professional standards also require us to accumulate all known and
likely misstatements identified during the audit, other than those that we believe are h·ivial, and
communicate them to the appropriate level of management. Further, professional standards require us
to also communicate the effect of uncorrected misstatements related to prior periods on the relevant
classes of h·ansactions, account balances or disclosures, and the financial statements as a whole and each
applicable opinion unit. We did not identify any misstatements. Uncorrected misstatements or matters
underlying those uncorrected misstatements could potentially cause future-period financial statements
to be materially misstated, even though the uncorrected misstatements are immaterial to the financial
statements currently under audit.

In addition, professional standards require us to communicate to you all material, corrected
misstatements that were brought to the attention of management as a result of our audit procedures. We
did not identify any misstatements as a result of our audit procedures.

Disagreements with Management

For purposes of tlus letter, professional standards define a disagreement with management as a matter,
whether or not resolved to our satisfaction, concerning a financial accounting, reporting, or auditing
matter, which could be significant to the Dish·ict's financial statements or the auditor's report. No such
disagreements arose during the course of the audit




                                                                                                             P54
To the Board of Directors
  of the Sacramento Meh'opolitan Fire Dish'ict
Sacramento, California
Page4

Representations Requested from Management

We have requested certain written representations from management, which are included in the attached
letter dated December 5, 2025.

Management's Consultations with Other Accountants

In some cases, management may decide to consult with other accountants about auditing and accounting
matters. Management informed us that, and to our knowledge, there were no consultations with other
accountants regarding auditing and accounting matters.

Other Significant Matters, Findings, or Issues

In the normal course of our professional association with the Dish'ict, we generally discuss a variety of
matters, including the application of accounting principles and auditing standards, significant events or
h'ansactions that occurred during the year; operating and regulatmy conditions affecting the entity, and
operational plans and sh·ategies that may affect the risks of material misstatement. None of the matters
discussed resulted in a condition to our retention as the Dish'ict's auditors.

Single Audit Compliance

In accordance with the Uniform Guidance, we examined, on a test basis, evidence about the Dish'ict' s
compliance with the types of compliance requirements described in the U.S. Office of Management and
Budget (0MB) Compliance Supplement applicable to each of its major federal programs for the purpose
of expressing an opinion on the Dish'ict' s compliance with those requirements. While our audit provides
a reasonable basis for our opinion, it does not provide a legal determination on the Dish·ict' s compliance
with those requirements

Required Supplementaiy Information

We applied certain limited procedures to the required supplementary information (RSI) that
supplements the basic financial statements. Our procedures consisted of inquiries of management
regarding the methods of preparing the information and comparing the information for consistency with
management's responses to our inquiries, the basic financial statements, and other knowledge we
obtained during our audit of the basic financial statements. We did not audit the RSI and do not express
an opinion or provide any assurance on the RSI.




                                                                                                              PSS
To the Board of Directors
 of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Sacramento, California
Page5

Supplementary Information

We were engaged to report onfthe supplementary information which accompany the financial statements
but are not RSI. With respect to this supplementary information, we made certain inquiries of
management and evaluated the form, content, and methods of preparing the information to determine
that the information complies with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America, the method of preparing it has not changed from the prior period, and the information is
appropriate and complete in relation to our audit of the financial statements. We compared and
reconciled the supplementary information to the underlying accounting records used to prepare the
financial statements or to the financial statements themselves.

This report is intended solely for the information and use of the Board of Directors, and management of
the District and is not intended to be and should not be used by anyone other than these specified parties.




Badawi & Associates, CPAs
Eme1yville, California
December 5, 2025




                                                                                                              P56
     Government Finance Officers Association


              Certificate of
              Achievement
             for Excellence
              in Financial
               Reporting

                  Presented to

Sacramento .Metropolitan Fire District
             California

          For its Annual Comprehensive
                  Financial Report
            For the Fiscal Year Ended

                  June 30, 2024



        ~ p. ~
              Executive Director/CEO




                                               P57
                 BADAWI & ASSOCIATES
                 Certified Public Accountants

                                                '!\~:;:;.




       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
       District                                             .-;;

                                                                   ---...~- . ~...,

       Presentation to the Board of Directors                                                     ,,.::-0"<!'
                                                                                            #
                                                                                       ~c,,<:.i          ....
                                                                                      <:>         ;:::i>~
                                                                                            q'-0           ,::,..:
                                                                                                   ¢c'-o
                                                                                                             ,,

       January 22, 2026




"1J
CJ'I
co
       2025 Audit of
       Sacramento Metro Fire
       District




-0
()"I
co
      m
 co
-a
C
Q)
no
<(
          P60
P61
                  Lil
        I
        i::::=,
        ~
        ~
        ;
        @
        §
u,      ~
Ii.     ©)
Q)
        ~
.c      ©
E       b
        @
:s
z·          oO
            a
 G)     d
.c
....,   ~
         ~
~       ~
         ~
  I     ~
        d
 E
·-
 Ii.
LL
 Ii.
 ::s
0
                        P62
      Engagement Team

                                                   Quality Control
                             Engagement Partner
                                                      Reviewer
                             Ahmed Badawi, CPA
                                                  Mitesh Desai, CPA



           IT Specialist
                                Audit Senior
         Omar Rahman, CPA,
                                 Ahmed Zag
               CISA




              Audit Staff        Audit Staff        Audit Staff
              Everly Feng      Madhuparna Pal      Ahmed Elkateb




~,,                                                                   6




""C
a,
w
J
               ...,
         -c -c
               ·-
             ::::,
          i<C
          u, cu
    ~\
          -cu .c...,
         .c'I-
           ...ca o
           cu cu
         -·-cu> (.)
         QC/)

                C.
                0
                       P64
·-
+-'
1J
:::J
<(
Q)
..c
+-'
'+-
0
Q)
c..
0
(.)
Cf)
1J
C
co
en
Q),
_,J
.c
~
 co
Q)
 >
·-
_,J
 Q)
0
       (;
            P65
 ~
 '0Jl
  0
 _,,,
  0
 "C
  0
 ..,
 .c
 G)
 ~
 ..,
 ·-
 "C
  ::J
: <C
        P66
        Audit Methodology




                                     Interim                                                   Reporting




      Gather information and   Review Systems, Processes   Test and Validate Significant   Prepare Necessary

      Finalize Timing.         and Assess Risk.            Account Balances.               Reports.




l,1                                                                                                            10




7J
O')
-.J
  ->aca
  E
-·-
c.. ~en
II--·-
 0  a:
 U) +-'
 ca
 a> ·-
    ,:,
 I-       :::s
<C <C            P68
      Areas of Primary Audit Risk
          Risk of Management Override of Controls - The risk of management override
          of controls was addressed by the following procedures:

          • Assigned staff based on consideration of audit risk.
          • Incorporated an element of unpredictability in the audit.
          • Considered the selection and application of significant accounting principles.
          • Examined journal entries prepared by management.
          • Reviewed accounting estimates for bias.
          • Evaluated the business rationale for unusual transactions.
          • Evaluated the appropriateness of fraud-related inquiries.




 11                                                                                          12




-0
en
co
       Areas of Primary Audit Risk
               Revenue and Receivables (Taxes, Grants, Notes, etc.) - Improper
               Revenue Recognitions:
               • Confirmed and validated property taxes, and other significant revenues and
                 receivables.
          I        -                                                                          --,

           .
               ~~~@@ = m ~®W@li ~.~@.[n}~.ffe-\@©@Oll@W'lm~ ~ftm®ft~
                                                                                               J



               • Capital Asset Useful Lives
               • Pension related estimates
               • Other Post-Employment Benefits (OPEB) related estimates
               • Claim Liabilities estimates




l,1                                                                                                 13




""tJ
--.J
0
      ~----
                                                                                                                                                     -, _

        Financ ial St atement
        Balance Sheet                                                             C:ish Flow Statement                                     ~
                                                                                                                --~


        ----
          . _._
          -- ·-.
          --
          --- ·--
                    ---
                    ~~---
                    ·--
                    ---
          C .-"-"'•IGli




          --
          --~ ·- . • ...    ................       .
                                                        ....,
                                                       ,...,.
                                                         ,__
                                                        ,..,,.
                                                       11,. n




                                                   ...............
                                                                     •
                                                                         o ,m


                                                                         .....
                                                                         .:,1:a

                                                                         tt.on


                                                                         " "~
                                                                     • ,u·
                                                                          ...
                                                                          ,       oi:r-~ActMUn




                                                                                   ~~
                                                                                       ~llt""4r.U..lld-
                                                                                       c,_,_~e.-,-.,._n,.,,_~

                                                                                  lmoosting Ac'Uw1U..




                                                                                   ::;,-o:..,.
                                                                                     ,___,.,......
                                                                                                                   ,,.,
                                                                                                                 . .................
                                                                                                                 !_!!:!!!I


                                                                                                                 ......
                                                                                                                          ...,
                                                                                                                         .,,,
                                                                                                                         ""'
                                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                                                            '"
                                                                                                                                            "'
                                                                                                                                            ""
                                                                                                                                           ,,,,,
                                                                                                                                            '"'
                                                                                                                                           .,.,
                                                                                                                                           , ..:.b




                                                                         -
                                               ~
                                                                         ~                                                             I   1,,.



        lncomo Statement
        ...,_                                      -~
                                                      ..,...,,            ~,.., ----
        --
        C... .. £11Wo




        -·-
        _,_
                                                   I     UH




        ---
        ~'f..-(

           ...   -      ~
                                                                                                        -- . -·
                                                                                                                    ...... -           -




      Auditor's Report


7J
-.J
_.,
       Auditor's Report
              Auditing Standards

              • Audit performed in accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing
                Standards
              • Audit performed in accordance with Government Auditing
                Standards

        ..---[ \ij®®fl@{gjn@~ @~ni~@. "                             ]- - - - - - - .

              • Financial statements are fairly presented in all material respects
              • Significant accounting policies have been consistently applied
              • Estimates are reasonable
              • Disclosures are properly reflected in the financial statements
Ill


l'-1                                                                                 15




""C
-.I
 N
    u,
    C
   ·-..,0
      co
   ·-
-c C
    (.)
 a, ::,
 ::, E
.!::    •
 c-E
a, 0
0::(.)
            P73
       Required Communications
         Auditor's Responsibilities                              ~   (r.?f~t®~@litii)@mlt~ ~~@~I.QlfiOOil~@@                         ]
         Provide an opinion on whether financial statements             Take responsibility for the financial stat ements
         are fairly stated in accordance with U.S. GAAP

                                                                        Establish and maintain internal control over
                                                                        financial reporting
         Evaluate internal control over financial reporting
         including tone at the top
                                                                        Make all financial records available to us
         Evaluate compliance with laws, contracts, and grants.

                                                                        Establish internal control to prevent and detect fraud

         Ensure financial statements are clear and transparent
                                                                        Inform us of all known and suspected f raud


         Communicate with the governing body
                                                                        [ Comply with laws and regulations
                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                        Take corrective action on audit findings

..,
l,1                                                                                                                              17




'"C
-.I
.;:.
       Required Communications
             Independence

             • It is our responsibility to maintain independence _
             • We maintained our independence by strict adherence to the AICPA and the
               Board of Accountancy rules and regulations
             • No services performed that could affect our independence.


             Timing of the Audit

             • Within the time frame originally communicated to the District in our
               engagement letters.


         -   -~~~tm~~f.ll\~@OO@j (Ul[l;)~ij]tr~@ll)~

             • The District adopted the following new pronouncements during the year:
               • GASB Statement No. 101 - Compensated Absences
               • GASB Statement No. 102- Certain Risk Disclosures


L,1                                                                                      18




""C
-.I
CJ'1
       Required Communications

                Difficulties Encountered in Performing the Audit
         [      • No difficulties encountered                                           J
                Significant Audit Adjustments and Unadjusted Differences
         [      • No proposed audit adjustments                                         J
         . -n   @@OO©~TI@~ fl@ ·U~tr[n)~ ©@@iij'@U. ©\¼®Lf ~mJ@Ui)@IT®.U ~@W.l@rrutf~   1-




                 • No material weaknesses identified




~'11                                                                                         19




"'C
-.J
O')
       New Accounting Standards

           2026

           • GASB Statement No. 103 - Financial Reporting Model
           • GASB Statement No. 104- Disclosure of Certain Capital Assets


       - [ ~~7(        :                                    ].- - - - - - ,
           • GASB Statement No. 105 - Subsequent Events




l,1                                                                           20




""Cl
-.J
-.J
        Thank You for Allowing
        us to Provide Audit
        Services to the Distri-c t.



""C
-...J
(X)
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite #200, Mather, CA 956?5 • (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief




   DATE:        January 22, 2026

  TO:           Board of Directors

  SUBJECT:      Present~tion of FY 2024/25 Community Annual Report and the Government
                Finance Officers Association Popular Annual Financial Reporting Award for
                Fiscal Year 2023/24

                                          BACKGROUND

  The Community Annu~I Report (CAR) for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025 is
  presented to the Board for review and acceptance. This year's report commemorates the
  Sacramento MetropoHtan Fire District's (Metro Fire) 25th anniversary.

                                            DISCUSSION

  The CAR is a summary financial report derived from the Annual Comprehensive Financial
  Report (ACFR) and is designed to provide an accessible, easy-to-understand overview
  of Metro Fire's financial condition to residents and readers with no formal backgroµnd in
  public finance. The FY 2024/25 CAR places special emphasis on Metro Fire's 25 years
  of service, highlighting key mile!>tones, legacy agencie~. operational achievements, and
  continued commitment to transparency and accountability.

  Metro Fire received its sevehth consecutive Award for Outstanding Achievement in
  Popular Annual Financial Reporting from the Government Finance Officers Association
  (GFOA) for the FY 2023/24 CAR. This prestigious national a.ward recognizes
  conformance with the highest standards i_n the preparation and present9-tion of popular
  financial reports for state and local governments.

  To earn this award a government entity must publish a Popular Annual Financial Report
  that meets GFOA program standards for creativity, presentation, understandability, and
  reader appeal.                                  •                                  •

  The FY 2024/25 CAR has been submitted to the GFOA for consideration in the current
  award cycle. Finance staff believe the report continues to meet GFOA standards while
  thoughtfully refle'cting Metro Fire's 25-year history and vision for the future.




                             Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                            P79
Page 2

                                    FISCAL IMPACT

There is no direct fiscal impact associated with accepting the report.

                                  RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Board accept and file the Community Annual Report.




Submitted by:                                    Approved by:


A_j:t~ ~
Dave O' Toole                                       eph Fiorica
Chief Financial Officer                           eputy Chief, A_
                                                                dministration


Attachments:

   1. FY 2024/25 Community Annual Report
   2. FY 2023/24 GFOA Award for Outstanding Achievement in Popular Annual
      Financial Reporting




                                                                                P80
Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
    Proudly Serving the California Counties of Sacramento and Placer
                                                                       P81
 'DidepJ«~?
Metro Fire's HQ sits in Mather,
steps from where the Mather
Air Force Base Fire Department,
our earliest predecessor, once
protected a bustling airfield
filled -with bombers, trainees,
and nonstop military activity.
Today, the area is a mix of
business        parks,      nature
preserves, and a major cargo
airport. The old flight line still
hosts airshows         that   keep
Mather's aviation spirit alive long
after t_he jets left.
  The Community Annual Report (CAR) provides              TABLE OF CONTENTS
• summarized financial information in an easily
  understood format. The CAR is derived from the             1    Message from the
  Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR),                   Fire Chief
  which is a detailed report showing Sacramento
  Metropolitan Fire District's (Metro Fire) financial        2    At a Glance
  condition. While the CAR is presented in conformity
                                                             3    Metro Fire's History
  with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, it
  contain~ only selected financial data rather than          5    Building a Legacy of Service
  financial statements and does not include required
  note disclosures. It is not intended to be a               6    Reflecting on our Journey
  substitute for the ACFR. To view the ACFR, visit:
                                                             7    By the Numbers
  http://metrofire.ca.gov/annual-comprehensive-              8    Net Position
                  financial-reports
                                                             9    Revenues

                                                            10    Expenses
        ~
                                                            11    Capital Spending
              CORE VALUES
                                                            12    Debt Service
   • Integrity • Professionalism •
  ·Teamwork· Devotion to Duty·                              12    Award




                                Opened in May 2022, Fire Station 68 in Rancho Cordova is Metro
                                Fire's newest station, funded by local development impact fees
                                and nearly three years in construction. The 9 ,200-square-foot
                                facility features modern health and safety systems and improved
                                response times in a rapid ly growing area. Metro Fire is also
                                building a new station for the Vineyard community, anticipated
                                for complet ion in 2027.
~                Message from the FIRE CHIEF

Vear residents of Metro Fire/
On December 1/ 2000/ Metro Fire officially came together as one district but our story began long before
that date. We were built on the legacy of volunteer departments like Mills Fire/ the groundbreaking work
of the Ladies in White/ and generations of firefighters who stepped up to protect their neighbors. That
spirit of collaboration/ professionalism/ and community service is still at the heart of who we are to_day.

As we celebrate 25 years/ we/re taking time to recognize the people and programs that helped us get
here. Whether Ws mentoring the next generation through Fire Camp or responding when our community
needs us most/ Metro Fire continues to show what can happen when shared purpose meets personal
commitment. Our history isn/t just something we look back on. It is what keeps us moving forward: one
district/ one community, one mission.

This Community Annual Report reflects that commitment by providing a
clear, accessible overview of Metro Fire/s finances and how those resources
support the emergency services we deliver every day. I am especially
 humbled by the community/s ?upport for Measure 0/ which will help restore
 and strengthen our capital equipment and facilities. rm also pleased to
 report that Metro Fire remains financially strong and we/I-positioned for the
future.
Thank you for your continued support and trust. Ws our privilege to serve-
today and into the next 25 years.                     •



                                              Adam A. House, Fire Chief



                                Elected Board of Directors
                                      As   of June 30, 2025




                                                                                                       P84
                                    AT A GLANCE
Metro Fire was established on December 1, 2000 through the merger of the American River and Sacramento
County Fire Protection Districts, which brought together 16 predecessor fire agencies. Metro Fire is governed
by a nine-member Board of Directors elected by citizens from the nine geographical divisions in Metro Fire's
area of responsibility.

Today, Metro Fire is the
largest fire agency in the                  G'llrroD~

County of Sacramento and
one of the largest in the
State. The combined Metro
Fire       provides        fire
suppression and emergency
medical services along with
various other public safety
and      hazard     mitigation
community services to
726,000       residents       in
approximately 359 square
miles. Metro Fire's service
                                                                                     SACRAMENTO
area includes two cities,                                                           METROPOLITAN
                                                                                     FIRE DISTRICT
most of the unincorporated
area of Sacramento County,
and a portion of Placer
County.       Within       the
boundaries of Metro Fire
are wildland areas, single
and multi-family residential
units, commercial and light
industrial buildings, hotels,
regional             hospitals,
institutions, local airfields,
assisted       living     and
convalescent facilities, equestrian areas, and open space areas including several major hiking trails.
 Numerous main interstate highways also traverse Metro Fire's jurisdiction, along with the American River, a
 major recreation resource for residents and visitors alike.

Metro Fire provides all-hazards emergency services through 40 stations strategically located across its
service area in order to respond to any emergency within its goal of 4-minute travel time.

                Metro Fire traces its origins to the Mather Air Force
                Base Fire Department, established in 1918 to protect
                roughly four square miles. Over the following decades,
                fifteen additional predecessor agencies were created
                to serve the region's rapidly growing communities.
                Through twelve mergers across the years, these
                independent agencies ultimately unified in 2000 to
                form the modern Metro Fire- now serving 359 square
                miles and employing more than 500 firefighters.

                                                                                                           P85
                                                                                                              METRO FIRE
                                                                                 1935
                                                                                 Citrus Heights
                                                                                 Fire District

                                                                                                               1942
       1922                                                                                                    Fair Oaks Fire District
       Mills Fire Dept.




                                                                                         1938
                                                                                        McClellan Air Force
                 1923-                                                                  Base Fire Dept.
                 Rio Linda Outpost
                 of Fire Protection                                                                             1942
                                                                                                                Florin Fire
                                                                                                                District




1918                                                                    1933                                   1942
Mather Air                                                                                                     Carmichael
                                                                        Orangevale Volunteer
Force Base                                                              Fire Dept.                             Fire District
Fire
Department,
the first
department
ofseveral
that would
one day form
the
Sacramento
Metropolitan
Fire District.

                     1925                                                                                       1942
                                                                                                                Arcade Fire Protection
                    Elverta Fire District
                                                                                                                District (FPD)
                     -
                     ~            1•    --
                                                              '
                                                                   ·-
                                                                        •,
                    ~     "f"'-              ,   ..     ...       _II!,•

                     -,- f'~i~-         I    ~ I f' ~         -
                                                                    !
                                                                         1•
                                                                             -

                                                  '
                                       ---            --                 '




                                                                                                                                         P86
HISTORY


                            1951
                        North Highlands
                        Village Fire District

                                         t"f,•
                                 . l..
                                 •
                                  ,, ,
                                      ''                                                            1989
                                ~•' •                                                               Consolidation of
                        '   '                                                                       Rancho Cordova FPD
                        l   '                                                                       and Citrus Heights
     1945                                                                                           FPD into Sacramento
     Consolidation                                                                                  County FPD
     of Citrus
     Heights FD
     and                                         1959
     Orangevale                                  Rancho Cordova FPD                                        1994
     Volunteer FD                                                                                          Fair Oaks FD
     into Citrus                                                                                           consolidated into
     Heights FPD                                                                                           Sacramento County
                                                                                                           FPD




                                                                                   1984
                                                                                   Merger of North
 1943                                                                              Highlands Village FD
 Arden Fire                                                                        into Citrus Heights
 District                                                1983                      FPD
                                                         Consolidation of Arden
                                                         FPD and Carmichael FD
                                                                                                                     2000
                                                                                                            Consolidation of 16 preexisting
                                                         into American River FPD
                                                                                                                    fire districts

                                                                                                                 SACRAMENTO
                                                                                                                 METROPOLITAN
                                                                                                                  FIRE DISTRICT

 1943
 Michigan
 BarFD               1947
                     Sloughhouse FPD




                                                                                                                                              P87
~                               Building a Legacy of Service
Over the past 25 years, Met_ro Fire has grown from a newly unified district into one of California's leading all-
hazards fire agencies. Through innovation, teamwork, and a commitment to community service, the District has
advanced emergency response, prevention, and public-safety programs. The accomplishments below reflect the
people and initiatives that shaped our first quarter-century and the foundation built for the years ahead.


Expanding disaster response - Metro Fire has                 Modernizing EMS staffing -             The Single Role
become a leading force in regional and national              Paramedic Program-later the Metro Medic Program,
emergency response. As a partner in California USAR          significantly strengthened Metro Fire's EMS delivery.
Task Force 7, the District has deployed to major             By staffing ambulances with dedicated paramedics and
disasters, including the September 11 attacks,               EMTs focused solely on advanced prehospital care, the
Hurricane Katrina, and the recent Palisades Fire,            program improved response times, boosted system
demonstrating readiness beyond local boundaries. In          efficiency, and elevated overall service quality. Just as ·
2003, it launched the region's first Community               importantly, it created a new entry path into the fire
Emergency Response         Team     (CERT)    program,       service, with many Metro Medics later becoming full-
strengthening community preparedness. Since 2001,            time firefighters. The program became both an
Metro Fire has also provided vital Aircraft Rescue and       ·operational enhancement and a valuable recruitment
Firefighting services at McClellan Airport and for the       pipeline, expanding opportunities for community
U.S. Coast Guard, enhancing regional aviation safety.        members to join Metro Fire.

Rebuilding EMS funding statewide -                    The    Improving community health -               Metro Fire's
Ground Emergency Medical Transportation (GEMT)               Mobile Integrated Health (MIH) Program reshaped
program, created by AB 678 to address Medi-Cal's             Metro Fire's medical response by deploying specially
below-cost federal reimbursement, has returned               trained paramedics and advanced practitioners to
hundreds of millions of dollars to California fire           address low-acuity calls, frequent 911 users, and
agencies by covering more of the true cost of 911            patients needing follow-up care. By providing in-home
transport. Metro Fire played a pivotal role in shaping       evaluations, resource navigation, and preventative
the program, helping design the reimbursement                support, the program reduces unnecessary transports
model, supporting the legislation, leading the GEMT          and eases strain on hospitals and the 911 system. As
workgroup, and later serving as the state's                  the first fire agency in the Sacramento region to launch
administrative and fiscal hub. This leadership stabilized    MIH, Metro Fire became a regional pioneer, improving
EMS funding statewide and strengthened local fire and        patient outcomes and connecting residents to the right
ambulance operations across California.                      level of care.

Enhancing all-hazards readiness - Metro Fire's               Strengthening our future - In November 2024,
Special Operations have helped transform Metro Fire          voters approved Measure 0, a general obligation bond
into a true all-hazards regional leader. In the early        providing $415 million for Metro Fire to modernize
2000s, Metro Fire established the Sacramento region's        stations, replace aging engines and ambulances,
first fire-district-based Air Operations program, adding     improve firefighter safety, and build new facilities for
multi-mission helicopters capable of fire attack, hoist      growing service demands. Funded through a modest
rescue, night operations, and ALS transport. Metro Fire      property-tax assessment, Measure O is dedicated
also built the region's only fire-district Dozer             solely to capital needs, not salaries or pensions,
Operations unit, providing critical fire line construction   ensuring long-term investment in infrastructure and
during wildland fires. Together, these specialized           lifesaving equipment. By upgrading outdated buildings
capabilities strengthened initial-attack effectiveness,      and expanding capacity, the measure strengthens 911
expanded rescue capacity, and enhanced mutual-aid            reliability, supports faster response times, and helps
support, positioning Metro Fire as a regional pioneer in     ensure Metro Fire remains prepared to meet the
advanced emergency response.                                 increasing needs of the communities it serves.



                                                                                                                   P88
                              Reflecting on our Journey
                                                                                                           ,.
                                                                                                           ,c,norl~

As we reflect on our journey, we honor the people, experiences, and defining moments that have shaped
Metro Fire into the organization it is today. Over the past 25 years, Metro Fire has grown through resilience,
innovation, and a steadfast commitment to service. The stories that follow highlight the legacy we've built
together and the values that continue to guide and inspire our work moving forward.

Honoring the Mills Fire legacy - The Mills Fire Department,
founded in 1922 on the A.F. Bryan Ranch, is a key part of Metro Fire's
early history. Beginning with a Model T Ford chemical unit, it grew
through major challenges, including grain fires and limited resources,
prompting upgrades, new facilities, and rising volunteer ranks. Its growth
and resilience encapsulates our unwavering dedication to enhancing
safety for all.

                                   Women who answered the call - The "Ladies in White" formed in the
                                   1940s, when World War II staffing shortages led the Citrus Heights
                                   Volunteer Fire Department to create a Ladies Auxiliary. Trained With
                                   hospitals, the Red Cross, and firefighters, they served from 1951 to 1986
                                   and helped build early medical response teams. Their dedication,
                                   teamwork, and volunteer spirit filled critical emergency roles and left a
                                   lasting mark on Metro Fire's history.


From devastation to reform - On April 28, 1973, massive explosions at the
Southern Pacific rail yard in Roseville devastated the Antelope community. A
train carrying nearly 7,000 Vietnam War-era bombs detonated, injuring
hundreds, destroying thousands of structures, and flattening Citrus Heights Fire
Station 6. The blasts forced 18,000 residents to evacuate and ultimately drove
stronger federal rules for transporting hazardous materials.


                     Foundations of leadership - Metro Fire's first Fire Chief, Rick Martinez, played a
                     pivotal role in shaping Metro Fire's formation and early leadership. Before helping create
                     Metro Fire in 2000, he served as chief of multiple predecessor districts and spent 21 years
                     with Sacramento Fire, including leading major national emergency responses. After
                     retiring, he continued serving in key statewide public-safety roles, leaving a lasting impact
                     on the fire service.

Inspiring future firefighters - Fire Camp, launched in 1997 and championed
 by Chief Dan Haverty, gives middle school students a powerful introduction to
 leadership, teamwork, and community service. Nearly 2,000 campers have
                                                                                              '.- h~-.._
                                                                                                    t.i~
                                                                                              ~ .J{ "' .
                                                                                                          .. ~-~~
                                                                                                       .· --r·
 participated, many leaving with greater confidence and engagement. The program                            ,,,
 has become both a beloved community tradition and a valuable recruitment tool;          •.                      .
 shaping future leaders and reflecting Metro Fire's core values.

                             Service to Countty and Community - Each Veterans Day, Metro Fire honors
                             the firefighters and staff, past and present, who served in the U.S. Armed Forces,
                             including those who made the ultimate sacrifice. Veterans proudly wear military
                             branch pins, and retirees are recognized for the service and values they contributed
                             to Metro Fire's enduring mission.

                                                                                                                     P89
                               BY THE NUMBERS
                     For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025

              Metro Fire's operational footprint continues to grow with the community.
                                                                                                                            I



                                             public safety


                                       (9 6m 27s                                                                                40                                                     35
~ 107,145
        Calls Dispatched               Average Response Time to                                                            Fire
                                                                                                                                /

                                                                                                                                                                            Major
                                       Provide Medical Aid                                                               Stations                                          Inci,dent

El 6.7of10
        Medical Calls                   (~ Sm 53s                                                                        GI
                                                                                                                                                                         Deployments
                                                                                                                                                                          31 California
                                                                                                                                                                           4 National


d       3,874
        Fires Extinguished
                                       Average Response Time to
                                       Reach Structure Fires
                                                                                                             ····················.............................. ·······················""'''......................................


                                                                                                                                                            374
                                        (~ Sm 10s
@ 3,923 Vehicle Accidents
                                       Average Response Time to
                                       Reach Vehicle Accidents
                                                                                                                     Apparatus and Other Vehicles

                                                                                                                                    Trucks, engines, rescues,
                                                                                                                                        medics, and cars




               fire family                                                                                     co 1nmunity


                           779
  Metro Fire Employees
                                                                                           8,793 Code Enforcement Inspections
  4 Office of the Fire Chief                                                               4,000 Plan Reviews             ~
672 Operations                                                                             8,904 Construction Inspections ~
       • Fire Suppression                                                                    172 Fireworks Inspections
       • Emergency Medical Services                                                          959 Weed Abatement Inspections
       • Metro Medic Program
                                                    ·······················..........,...............................................................................................................................................
         Special Operations




                                                                                 ,.~
       • Pl anning and Development

 71 Support Services                                                    446 Community Engagements
       • Community Risk Reduction
                                                                                                                249 Special Events/Station Tours
       • Facilities
                                                                                                             79,911 Estimated residents reached
       • Fleet
       • Information Technology


                                                                            ~
       • Logistics
                                                                                                                131 School Visits
                                                                                                             20,964 Estimated Students Reached
 32 Administration


                                                                           9
       • Community Relations                                                                                     66 Open Houses/Community Events
       • Finance                                                                                             23,536 Estimated Residents Reached
       • Human Resources
       • Training/ Wellness, Health, and Safety



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P90
                                              NET POSITION
                                    What We Own & What We Owe

The government-wide Statement of Net Position provides a point-in-time view of Metro Fire's finances. Like
many California fire agencies, Metro Fire reports a negative net position due to long-term pension and retiree
medical obl igations. Metro Fire continues to meet all short-term obligations and maintains strong operating and
capital reserves. Because net position is sensitive to changes in these long-term liabilities, it may fluctuate;
however, Metro Fire has shown gradual improvement over the past four years.

                                                                                         (in thousands)
                                                                                                              FY 21
                                                                                        $(578,039)

                                                                                                              FY 22
                                                                                        $(544,402)

                                                                                                              FY 23
                         !                                              •       •       $(518,151)
                         I


                                                                                                              FY 24
                                                                                        $(514,016)

                                                                                                              FY 25
                                                                                        $(509,945)


NET POSITION
{In thousands)                                                                           2025                  2024

Cash and other assets                                                               $      135,112        $      125,082
   cash and investments, receivables, and inventories

Capital assets                                                                             105,016               105,581
   land, buildings, and equipment net of accumulated depreciation

Deferred outflows                                                                          214,543               227,646
   expenses incurred but applicable to a future year

   TOTAL ASSETS AND OUTFLOWS                                                             454,671               458,309

Current and other liabilities                                                               11,787                14,286
   payables, payroll, and unearned revenue

Long-term liabilities                                                                      916,426               915,234
   bonds, other post-employment benefits, pensions, and other obligations

Deferred inflows                                                                            36,403                42,805
   Income received applicable to a future year

   TOTAL LIABILITIES AND INFLOWS                                                         964,616               972,325

Net investment in capital assets                                                            86,283                86,988
   net book value of capital assets less related outstanding debt
Restricted                                                                                  29,958                24,690
   what is not available for use because it is set aside for a particular use
Unrestricted                                                                              (626,186)             (625,694)
   funds available to use for general operations

   TOTAL NET POSITION                                                               $ {509,945)           $ {514,016)
                                                                                                                       P91
                                                        REVENUES
                                        Where the Money Came From


                                                                                          Property tax is the main source of funding
SOURCES                                                 2025           2024               for fire suppression activities. For every
(in thousands)
                                                                                          dollar paid by a resident in Metro Fire's
Program Revenues - revenues that are                                                      jurisdiction, about 23.66 cents go to
 derived directly from operations, not
                                                                                          Metro Fire.
 the taxpayers                                                                                                                    .. .    !l.'J.6'6f'
                                                                                                                                      ·   •. !,/etJ•o
   Charges for services                             $    119,702   $    104,945                                           ~       •         \       Fire
    fees charged for ambulance transports,                                                               'l,...._i.,:J;,,Ol"-7}            ~    -


     deployments, and similar charges
                                                                                             76.9 4 ¢
   Grants                                                  3,595          5,115              to Sac
       federal and state grant awards                                                        Cow1ty
                                                                                             a11dotlw1
L                     Total Program Revenues             123,297        110,oso       l      agencies
General Revenues - Revenues not
 required to be reported as program
                                                                                          The average assessed value of a detached
                                                                                          single family residential home in Metro
 program revenues
                                                                                          Fire's jurisdiction is $356,600, which
   Property taxes                                        214,991        202,446           rrieans that a homeowner typically
       received from property owners based on                                             contributes about $844 per year in
       the assessed valuation and tax rate.
                                                                                          property taxes to Metro Fire.
   Miscellaneous/ Other Income                             9,018              8,423
       all other revenue such as resources
       reeceived from other agencies,
       investment and rental income

                      Total General Revenues             224,009        210,869       I
                               Total Revenues ~                         320 929
                                                                                           Charges
                                                                                             for
Metro Fire experienced 12 straight years of growth in assessed
                                                                                           Services         2025
property values since FY 2012/13, increasing by $4.6 bi llion in the                         34%            $347M
most recent fiscal year to a ·tota l of $94 billion. This generated
$215 million in property tax revenues for the current fiscal year,
$13 million more from the prior year.

 350 Vl
        z
        0
        ::;
        _,
 300
        ~
 250

 200
                                 -             --
                                 Charges for services
                                     and others
                                                                                          Metro Fire • continues to find ways to
                                                                                          diversify its revenue base through better
                                                                                          cost recovery on its emergency medical
                                                                                          services. Property taxes composed 62%
 150
                                                                                          of all sources. Charges for services and
 100                                                                                      other revenues now amount to $120
                                                                                          million in the current fiscal year, more
  so                                                                                      than double the amount a decade ago.


       2016    2017     2018   2019     2020    2021    2022   2023    2024     2025
                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                                                                                                                                           P92
                                                           EXPENSES
                                                Where the Money Went


The overriding goal of the budget process is to optimize services to
the community; ensure that the ongoing all-risk fire, rescue and
                                                                                                        Services
emergency medical needs of the citizens are met; and provide                                             Suppl'
adequate reserves for future contingencies.

As a public safety provider, the majority of Metro Fire's operating                                                 TOTAL
expense relates to personnel costs, accounting for 80% of total                                                    EXPENSES
expenses. The 8 percent {$26 million) increase in total expenses for                                               2025
the current fiscal year is mainly due to increases in personnel                                                    $343M
expenses from contracted across the-board wage increase for all
employees of 6 percent and 4 percent effective January 1, 2024
and January 1, 2025, respectively.


                                                                                   $343,234
                                                                $316,795

                                            $272,296
      $254,294
                         $224,738




   2021              2022                2023                2024             202S

                                          FISCAL YEAR                                                   Firefighter helmets have come
                                                                                                        a long way since the 1830s.
                                                                                                        Early helmets were hand-
EXPENSES                                                            2025                 2024           crafted from thick leather and
(in thousands)                                                                                          designed mainly to deflect
Public Protect ion - Direct cost ofseNices provided                                                     heat, embers, and falling
 Personnel                                                      $    277,129         $    251,893       debris. Today's helmets use
  salaries and benefits such as pension costs
                                                                                                        advanced      materials     like
                                                                                                        fiberglass, Kevlar , and heat-
Services and Supplies                                                 52,655                  52,984
                                                                                                        resistant       thermoplastics,
  f e1;s paid to vendors for various services and supplies
                                                                                                        offering far greater protection
 Other                                                                     3,659                        against    impact,     extreme
  includes assessments paid ta other local agencies                                                     temperatures, and hazardous
Depreciation                                                               7,981               7,429    environments. Modern designs
 a/located cost of capitol assets over their useful life
                                                                                                        also integrate shields, eye
                                                                                                        protection, and communication
Interest and Others                                                        1,810               1,949
                                                                                                       .features-reflecting the all-
 includes interest and other miscellaneous expenses
                                                                                                        hazards fire service of today.
                                         Total Expenses        $ 343,234 $                316,795
                                                               -----

                                                                                                                                     P93
~          ing in dependable appa~t~ :~e~e~i~e= :d~p:d~ :~a~ns is essential to maintaining a
    reliable fire service. Keeping resources in peak condition and integrating new technology ensures safe, efficient
    operations and prepares Metro Fire to meet the growing needs of the communities it serves.


                                  For the year ended June 30, 2025
    Taking into account the operational needs, current fleet status, and available resources, Metro Fire invested in
    the following significant capital assets in the most recent year:

     4 TYPE Ill AMBULANCES ($942 thousand)                        ZIN FANDEL TRAINING SITE PHASE 3 ($4.2 million)
                                                                  The Phase 3 buildout of the First Responder Training
     These smaller ambulances are fully equipped yet have a       Facility, includes the construction of indoor training and
                            lower initial cost, increased fuel    academy facilities that will support existing and future local
                               economy, and longer service        and statewide training activities.
                                                     intervals.




     4 AMBULANCE REMOUNTS ($673 thousand)
     The box portion of an existing ambulance is mounted on
     a new cab and chassis. This remount process costs about
     one-third of the price to purchase a new ambulance.



                      For the upcoming year ending June 30, 2026

    Metro Fire issued $160 million in the first series of Measure O general obligation bonds, and together with
    development impact fees, will use the proceeds to fund the following planned capital asset acquisitions:

     VINEYARD SPRINGS STATION ($10 million)                       ZINFANDEL TRAINING SITE PHASE 3 ($13 million)
     Fire Station 67 is a 10,148 square feet fire station,        Continuation of the Phase 3 buildout.
     budgeted at a total cost of just over $16 million,.
     currently under development on a 4.77-acre site located      _APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT ($66 milli?n)
     at 8101 Bradshaw Road in Sacramento that will serve          Designed to modernize Metro Fire's fleet and replace
     the Vineyard community.                                      emergency response vehicles at end of life as well as
                                                                  upgrade essential tools like protective gear, radios, and
     EXPANSION AND RELOCATION OF EXISTING FIRE                    rescue equipment. By investing in reliable, modern assets,
     STATIONS ($4.6 million)                                      Measure O enhances firefighter safety, improves response
                                                                  capabilities, and supports consistent,        high-quality
      LAND FOR FUTURE FIRE STATIONS ($2.4 million)                emergency service for the community.



                         Every Metro Fire ambulance carries a LUCAS mechanical
                         CPR device, which provides nonstop, precisely timed chest
                         compressions during cardiac arrest, improving outcomes and .
                         allowing paramedics to focus on other critical care. Don't
                         have a LUCAS device? You can still perform hands-only CPR:
                         call 9-1-1, then push hard and fast in the center of the
                         chest at 100 to 120 compressions per minute, roughly the
                         rhythm of "Stayin' Alive," until help arrives.


                                                                                                                            P94
                                                        DEBT SERVICE

Metro Fire's long-term debt includes pension                             Debt Payments For the Next 5 Years
bonds, lease revenue. bonds, and capita l
equipment financing. Pension bonds were issued                                   ,
to reduce Metro Fire's unfunded pension liability.                 $20

Lease revenue bonds supported the purchase of                                ,
                                                              V)   $15
the headquarters building, facility improvements,             C:

and essential fire and technology equipment.                  2
                                                                   $10
Capital equipment financing from banks                        2
continues to fund the replacement of engines,                       $5
ambulances, and other critical emergency-
response tools.                                                     $0
                                                                                     2026       2027       2028        2029       2030

In November 2024, voters approved Measure 0,
authorizing up to $415 million in general                                            ■ Measure O GO Bonds            Bank Financing
                                                                                     ■ Lease Revenue Bonds           Pension Bonds
obligation bonds for major capital improvements,
including new and rebuilt fire stations, facility
upgrades, training center enhancements, and                                                  Metro Fire's Fitch
lifesaving vehicles and equipment. Metro Fire                                                 Credit Rating
issued the first $160 million on July 2, 2025, with
bonds maturing through 2055. While this                            AAA - reflects an exceptionally        /
increases long-term debt and future interest                       strong capacity to meet the , ) ,; :~- ,~ /
costs, repayment is supported by an ad valorem                     Metro Fire's GO bonds,              ~'AA,, _
tax levy of about $19 per $100,000 of assessed                     helping to ensure lower         ~
                                                                                                ,.....
                                                                   borrowing costs.                   ~
value.


                                                                     I   •




                               Awnrdfor
                                                             A
                                                             w
                               Outstauding
                             Achievement in
                             Popular Ammal
                           Fiuaucinl Rcpo1ting


                                   ""'""""                   A
                   Sacraitntnto Mtlropolll.10 Fire Dhhi cl
                                 California
                                                                                                C<OMMUNXTY
                                                                                     Zn•ld• Look Into

                           r«cknwrc&:ld.alt.q;,;t
                             Faf:cf""c.cal\"t•&..itJ.
                                                             R                          Special ANNUAL
                                                                                     Operations Rli:P<ORT
                                  bit}0,201-'

                                                             D
                                                                                                    Sacramento Mett"opolitan
                                                                                                               Fire District




Metro Fire received the GFOA Award for Outstanding Achievement in Popu lar Annual Financial Reporting for
the seventh consecutive yea r for its Community Annual Report for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024. This
recognition reflects Metro Fire's commitment to clear, accessible financial reporting and adherence to the
highest standards of creativity, presentation, understandability, and reader engagement.

                                                                                                                                         P95
     Government Finance Officers Association


            Award for
           Outstanding
          Achievement in
          Popular Annual
        Financial Reporting

                  Presented to

Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
            California
                              '
         For its Annual Financial Report
           For the Fiscal Year Ended

                  June 30, 2024



        ~P-~
              Executive Director/CEO




                                               P97
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire Dist_
                                                     rict
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite #200, Mather, CA 95655 • (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) &59-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief


   DATE:          January 22, 2026
                             1


  TO:             Board of Directors

  SUBJECT:        Government        Finance      Officers     Association      (GFOA)       Triple     Crown
                  Recognition


                                             BACKGROUND


  The Government Finance Officers Association's (GFOA) Triple Crown recognition
  acknowledges public agencies that have received all three of GFOA's major awards:

       •    Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting,
       •    Award for Outstanding Achievement in Popular Annual Financial Reporting, and
       •    Distinguished Budget Presentation Award.

  In June 2025, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (Metro Fire) was awarded its first-
  ever GFOA Triple Crown. Metro Fire was one of 403 governments in the U.S. an_            d
  Canada-and just the ·second fire district-to receive this distinction, reflecting its
  commitment to transparency, accountability, and excellence in financial management.

  Based on subsequent GFOA award selections, Metro Fire has also qualified for a second
  GFOA Triple Crown, pending a formal announcement by the GFOA later thi~ year.

                                              DISCUSSION

  On September 18, 2024, Metro Fire received its 10th • consecutive Certificate of
  Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting from the GFOA for its Annual
  Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023.

  On December 24, 2024, Metro Fire received its 6th consecutive Award for Outstanding
  Achievement in Popular Annual Financial Report_ ing from the GFOA for its Community
  Annual Report (CAR) for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023.

  On November 17, 2023, Metro Fire received its first Distinguished Budget Presentation
  Award from the GFOA for its budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2023. This award
  represents the t,ighest form of recognition in_government_ al budgeting and completed the
  trio of GFOA awards, result_ing in Metro Fire's Fiscal Year 2023 Triple Crown designation.

  Metro Fire has since received the same GFOA awards for its ACFR and CAR for the fiscal
  year ended June 30, 2024, and for its Budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2024,
                                 Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                               P98
Page 2

again qualifying Metro Fire for the GFOA 2024 Triple Crown, pending a formal
announcement.

                                    FISCAL IMPACT                                     \.




There is no fiscal impact associated with this item. Continued participation in GFOA award
programs enhances Metro Fire's financial reporting practices, promotes transparency and
accountability, and supports the maintenance of Metro Fire's exceptional bond ratings.


                                 RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Board accept and file the award.



Submitted by:                                    Approved by:


 ~A.,_d~,
oeITToole                                       J~o~
Chief Financial Officer                         Deputy Chief, Administration


Attachments:

   1. Press release dated June 16, 2025, announcing 2023 Triple Crown selection




                                                                                             P99
                   GOVERNMENT FINANCE OFFICERS ASSOCIATION

                   NEWS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE


June 16, 2025                                         For more information contact:
                                                      Natalie Laudadio
                                                      312.578.2298
                                                      nlaudadio@gfoa.org




(Chicago, Illinois)-Government Finance Officers Association of the United States and Canada (GFOA) has
named Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, CA as a 2023 Triple Crown Winner. GFOA's Triple Crown
designation recognizes governments who have received GFOA's Ce1tificate of Achievement for Excellence in
Financial Reporting or Canadian Award for Financial Repo1ting, Popular Annual Financial Reporting Award,
and Distinguished Budget Presentation Award for a fiscal year. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, CA
is one of just 403 governments that received the Triple Crown for fiscal year 2023.

The Triple Crown designation represents a significant achievement. To qualify, each entity must meet the high
staridatds of all tlu·ee separate award programs. Each award program recognizes governments that produce
reports which communicate their financial stories in a transparent manner and meet applicable standards. To
learn more about the award, visit https://ww\'1.gfoa.org/gfoa-triple-crown-winners or email
coaprogram@gfoa.org




Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA) advances, excellence in governmentfinance byproviding best
practices, professional development, resources, and practical reseqrch for more than 23,000 members and the
communities they serve.




         203 NO RTH LASALLE STREET, SUITE 2700, CH ICAGO, ILLI N OIS 60601 - 1210

                                                                                                                P100
