       l           I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
  ~ill~                 10545 Armstrong Ave. , Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700

  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                             Thursday, March 26, 2026 - 6:00 p.m.
John Costa
                                             Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                               10545 Armstrong Avenue, Suite 200
Division 9
                                                  Boardroom - Second Floor
                                                       Mather, California
Robert Webber
Board Vice President
                                                               &
Division 3                                            Remotely Via Zoom
                                                 Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Brian Rice                                           Passcode: metro2101
Board Secretary
Division 7                                 Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
                                                    2 Passcode: 838771796 #
Cinthia Saylors          https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Board Member
Division 1


Grant Goold            The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Board Member               and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.
Division 2


Ted Wood               The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Board Member
Division 4
                       the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
Shawn Stark            Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 5
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting , based on disability or other
D'Elrnan Clark
Board Member           reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
Division 6             advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
                       accommodations:
Gay Jones
Board Member
Division 8                                                     Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties




                                                                                                                                  P1
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                   THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2026



►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video-
streamed at metro14live.saccounty.gov. Today's meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
March 30, 2026, and agai_n at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, April 1, 2026, on Metro Cable
Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand at
youtube.com/metrocable 14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the
presiding officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the
interest of time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations.
Speakers' comments will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures,
members of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting
record must be present or have a representative present to read their comments during
the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral
of issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly
approval, declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent
Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion
and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                     Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                             6
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board
       Meeting of February 26, 2026.



                                                                                                                              P2
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                  THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2026



2.   Purchase Approval - Switches and Wireless Access Points                           12
     Recommendation: Approve the Purchase of switches and wireless access points
     from SHI International using the City of Mesa/OMNIA Partners IT Solutions, Products
     & Services contract# 2024056-02.

3.   Continuing Emergency Work Approval -10545 Armstrong Avenue                          15
     Recommendation: Determine that an emergency continues to exist and authorize
     contracting without a competitive solicitation for bids pursuant to PCC Section 22050
     for the repair, demolition, and clean-up services required to restore 10545 Armstrong
     Avenue to a condition safe for occupancy.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.   2025 Year-end Review                                                                                                **
     (PIO Nunez)
     Recommendation: Receive the presentation.

REPORTS:
1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                  (President Costa)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -                (Chief House)

             OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

            ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

             SUPPORT & EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy
             Chief Mitchell)

3.   SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT- (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
     522 Vice President)

4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
      Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

      A.     Executive Committee - (President Costa)
             Next Meeting: April 9, 2026, at 4:30 p.m.

      8.     Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
             Next Meeting: April 28, 2026, at 9:00 a.m.
             SRFECC Annex - 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite 200, Sacramento

      C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
             Next Meeting: May 28, 2026, at 5:30 p.m.
                                                                                                                              P3
I&
~
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                     THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2026



         D.    Policy Committee - (Director Saylors)
               Next Meeting: April 9, 2026, at 5:30 p.m.

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter(s):

1.       CONFERENCE WITH LABOR NEGOTIATOR
         Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6

         A. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
            Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

         B. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
            Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                   Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

         C. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
            Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                   Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

         D. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
            Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                   and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

         E. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
            Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                   and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

         F. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
            Employee Organization: EMT and Paramedic Memorandum of Understanding

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Suite 200, Mather, CA 95655

     •   Regular Board Meeting - April 9, 2026, at 6:00 p.m.




                                                                                                                            P4
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2026


Posted on March 9, 2026, by 4:30 p.m.




Marni Rittburg, cc,cPMC
Clerk of the Board

** No written report
1lmll Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility.




                                                                                                                              PS
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief            ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING
                                    BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                            SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                            Thursday, February 26, 2026, at 6:00 p.m.
                                     Held at the following locations:
                                 10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                            Mather, California
                                                     &
                                           Remotely Via Zoom

   CALL TO ORDER

   The meeting was called to order at 6:01 p.m. by President Costa. Board members present:
   Clark, Costa, Jones, Rice, Stark, Webber, and Wood. Board members absent: Goold and
   Saylors. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

   PUBLIC COMMENTS

   No public comments were received .

   CONSENT ITEMS

   Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by members
   present to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

   1.          Action Summary Minutes
               Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board
               Meetings of January 8, 2026, and January 22, 2026.
               Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

   2.          Amendment of the Board of Directors Policies & Procedures - Executive Committee
               Scope and Purpose
               Recommendation: Approve the amended Board of Directors Policies and Procedures,
               including updates to the Executive Committee meeting frequency and Executive
               Committee Charter.
               Action: Approved.

   3.          Revision of Board Policy 01 .022.02 - Meal & Refreshment Policy
               Recommendation: Approve the revisions to the Meal & Refreshment Policy.
               Action: Approved.

   4.          Continuing Emergency Work Approval -10545 Armstrong Avenue
               Recommendation: Determine that an emergency continues to exist and authorize
               contracting without a competitive solicitation for bids pursuant to PCC Section 22050 for



                                                                                                               P6
      the repair, demolition, and clean-up services required to restore 10545 Armstrong Avenue
      to a condition safe for occupancy.
      Action: Approved.

PRESENTATION ITEMS

1.    Firefighters Burn Institute
      (Joe Pick, Firefighters Bum Institute)
      Recommendation: Receive plaque.
      Action: Plaque received from the Firefighters Burn Institute.

2.    EMS Excellence
      (EMS Chief Jon Rudnicki)
      Recommendation: Receive the presentation.
      Action: Presentation received; EMS Chief Jon Rudnicki presented commendations to
      the crew and citizens who provided assistance including Director Stark and the survivor
      spoke.

ACTION ITEMS

1.    Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement- Firefighter Jason Watts
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
      finding Firefighter Watts has suffered job-related injuries incapacitating him for the
      performance of duties as a Firefighter, and direct staff to continue working with Firefighter
      Watts through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
      Action: None, item to be voted on after discussion in Closed Session.

REPORTS

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Costa)

No Report

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -         (Chief House)

Good evening, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public

Chief House stated he couldn't be more proud as the Fire Chief. The EMS Excellence
presentation is a reflection of what our men and women do every day. They do exceptional
work.

Deputy Chief Wagaman and Chief House met with the Folsom Fire Department's Fire Chief
and Operations Chief last week to continue discussions regarding their current operations
and to explore potential opportunities for collaboration. They also had the opportunity to
congratulate Chief Jason Solak on his selection as Folsom's newest Fire Chief.

Chief Nygren and Chief House attended a Rancho Cordova luncheon where Sheriff Jim
Cooper was the guest speaker. It was a valuable opportunity to engage with our regional
partners and connect with community members in attendance.

Chief House also attended the Changing of the Guard ceremony for South Placer Fire District
for Fire Chief Darin Snedeker. Chief Snedeker was selected as the fire chief effective
January 1, 2026, following the retirement of Chief Mark Duerr.                              p7
2.26.2026 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 2 of 6
Finally, I look forward to seeing everyone at our Annual Awards Gala tomorrow evening,
where the District will honor Members of the Year recipients, nominees, and members
receiving commendations and recognition in several additional categories. Doors open at
6:00 p.m., with dinner served at 7:00 p.m.

That concludes my report for this evening.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

No Report

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
Deputy Chief Fiorica reported:

   COMMUNITY RELATIONS DIVISION
     • The next Open House will be held at Station 50 on Saturday, March 21, 2026.
     • The NorCal Fire Explorer Muster, being held on Sunday, April 26, at Station 21,
       has 16 teams registered so far. Registration closes on Monday, March 2, 2026.
       This is a great event for young folks looking to have a career in the fire service.

   HUMAN RESOURCES
     • Logistics Technician Recruitment closes February 27, 2026.
     • Business Applications Analyst Recruitment closes March 5, 2026.
     • Engineer Recruitment closes April 17, 2026.

   RECRUITMENT & OUTREACH
     • Del Campo explorers are in the stations. 4th year. Excellent quality of students
       moving through the program.
     • Folsom/Cordova program moving along slowly but steadily. The 27/28 school year
       is now the target start date.
     • The California Department of Education is updating CTE curriculum standards.
       Captain Tim White is serving on a committee repres~nting the industry for the
       Public Safety Pathway. It will be a fast-moving project, but it will give us a say in
       state requirements for programs like these.

SUPPORT & EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

Deputy Chief Mitchell called EMS Chief Rudnicki to the podium to introduce newly hired
Doctor Kamara Graham, Medical Director in the EMS Division. Dr. Graham joined our agency
on February 1, after an extensive recruitment process. We're very fortunate to have Dr.
Graham apply as she works in the region at multiple hospitals. Dr. Graham introduced herself
to the Board and stated she is really excited and honored to have the opportunity to work with
Metro Fire and be part of this team.

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (Captain Brett Randle, Local 522
   Director)
    Captain Randle thanked the MMP group for picking up extra shifts. He expressed
    congratulations to everyone involved in the EMS excellence event/presentation.

                                                                                                 P8
2.26.2026 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                   Page 3 of 6
4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS                                                                 )
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
      10545 A1mstrong Avenue, Mathe,; California unless otherwise specified.

      A.      Executive Committee - (President Costa)
               No Report

      8.      Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
               The Communication Center JPA Board last met on February 24, 2026. During
               that meeting the Board approved the job description and contract for the Deputy
               Director of Operations position and gather staff approval to move forward with
               the recruitment for the position.

               The Board also approved a change to the meeting schedule moving from two
               meetings per month to one meeting per month beginning in March. The Board
               then participated in a Special Board meeting covering training on the Brown
               Act.

               There was no other reportable action taken. Our next meeting is scheduled for
               March 24, 2026.

       C.      Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
               The Finance and Audit Committee met tonight and received a very informative
               presentation by CFO O'Toole. For example, there was a slide about one-time
               revenue at risk and the Voluntary Rate Range Program (VRRP) which is worth
               approximately 16.5 million which is an annually renewed and comes from the
               federal government. This is something we need to look closely at for the next
               few months and with a little bit of luck, it will continue to help our programs here.

       D.      Policy Committee - (Director Clark)

               No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Jones thanked Metro Fire staff for hosting the CALAFCo strategy retreat today and also
a board meeting tomorrow. She stated she heard kudos and appreciation to Metro Fire from
CALAFCo for hosting and she wanted to pass that on to everyone.

Director Clark welcomed Dr. Graham to Metro Fire. He had the chance to meet her at the
Citizens Academy last night. Congratulations to the crew and Director Stark for saving the life of
the citizens that spoke tonight during the EMS Excellence.

Director Rice stated that he is closing out his career and the next 60 days are really going to be
spent closing the door as the President of the California Professional Firefighters. He wanted
everyone to know if you don't see him in the next couple of months, that's the reason why.

Director Webber thanked Director Rice for all of his service and that he's made a big impact in his
tenure for the entire state of firefighters.

President Costa thanked Director Rice and looking forward to our continued work together. He
congratulated Director Stark and the crew, it's great that you were there in someone's time of
need.
                                                                                                                       pg
2.26.2026 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                           Page 4 of 6
CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 6:34 p.m. on the following matter(s):

1.    CONFERENCE WITH LABOR NEGOTIATOR
      Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6

      A. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      B. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      C. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

       D. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
          Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                 and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

       E. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
          Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                 and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

       F. District Negotiator:    Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
          Employee Organization:· EMT and Paramedic Memorandum of Understanding

2.     PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (a) - ONE
       (1) MATTER OF WORKERS' COMPENSATION COMPROMISE AND RELEASE
              Jeffrey Metzinger and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              Claim # SMDH- 549775
              Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
              Colin Connor, Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

       Action: Moved by Webber, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by members
       present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a settlement of the
       matter.

3.     PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (a) - ONE
       (1) MATTER OF WORKERS' COMPENSATION SETTLEMENT AUTHORITY
              Steven Johnson and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              Claim # 25-198515
              Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority
              Colin Connor, Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

       Action: Moved by Wood, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by members
       present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a settlement of the
       matter.

4.     PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (a) -
       ONE (1) MATTER OF INDUSTRIAL DISABILITY RETIREMENT.

              Jason Watts and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                                                                                    P10
2.26.2026 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 5 of 6
              Claim# 25-189343 - Industrial Disability Retirement
              Joseph Fiorica, Deputy Chief of Administration

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:
The Board reconvened in open session at 8:31 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
that the Board met in closed session on four items:                      •
1. Conference with Labor Negotiator; the Board met with its designated labor negotiator; no
reportable action was taken in closed session.
2. Workers' Compensation Compromise and Release for Jeffrey Metzinger, the Board voted
unanimously to effectuate a settlement in that matter.
3. Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority, Steven Johnson, the Board voted
unanimously to effectuate a settlement in that matter.
4. One Matter of Industrial Disability Retirement, of Jason Watts, no reportable action was
taken in closed session and the Board will proceed with the vote in open session now on that
matter.

ACTION ITEM CONTINUED TO AFTER CLOSED SESSION:

1.     Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement - Firefighter Jason Watts
       Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
       finding Firefighter Watts has suffered job-related injuries incapacitating him for the
       performance of duties as a Firefighter, and direct staff to continue working with Firefighter
       Watts through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
       Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by
       members present to adopt Resolution 2026-005 finding Firefighter Jason Watts has
       suffered job related injuries incapacitating him for the performance of duties.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

 https://metrofire.ca.gov/2026-02-26-board-meeting

 https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA


. ADJOURNMENT

 The meeting was adjourned at 8:33 p.m.



 John Costa, Board President                          Brian Rice, Secretary




 Marni Rittburg , CMC
 Board Clerk




                                                                                                  P11
 2.26.2026 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 6 of 6
  l            I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
lfi♦;j:#               10545 Armstrong Ave. Suite 200. Mather, California 95655. Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916)859-3720
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief


DATE:              March 26, 2025

TO:                Board.of Directors

SUBJECT:           Purchase Approval - Purchase of Switches and Wireless Access Points

                                                   TOPIC

Staff requests Board approval for the purchase of Meraki switches and wireless access
points from SHI International using the City of Mesa IT Solutions, Products & Services
contract # 2024056-02, made available through the OMNIA Partners cooperative
purchasing program.
                                     DISCUSSION

 The majority of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's switches and wireless
 access points have reached end of life and end of support. If these devices are not
 replaced, they will not be able to receive the latest firmware and are susceptible to
 cyber vulnerabilities. To reduce the District's exposure to cyber threats, the District
 recommends purchasing new switches _  and wireless access points. •

 The District intends to fulfill this purchase utilizing the City of Mesa contract
 #2024056-02 through the OMNIA Partners cooperative purchasing program. OMNIA
 Partners is one of the largest cooperative purchasing organizations, providing public·
 agencies with the benefit of utilizing contracts that have already been
 competitively solicited and publicly awarded using a lead agency procurement
 model, the City of Mesa being the lead agency for this purchase. Cooperative
 purchasing provides participating entities increased administrative efficiencies and the
 power of combined purchasing volume that results in overall cost savings. The
 discounted pricing offered under this agreement will save the District $291,959.21.

                                    FISCAL IMPACT
 Funding for the switches and wireless access points is included in the 2025/2026 mid-
 year budget.

  Provider                      Product                                             Cost
  SHI              Switches and Wireless Access Points                           $205,039.05

                                          RECOMMENDATION
 Staff recommends that the Board of Director's allow the District to procure the switches
 and wireless access points from SHI International using the City of Mes~/OMNIA
 Partners IT Solutions, Products & Services contract# 2024056-02.

 Submitted by:                                              Approved by:

 ~h.ub7                                                                   rlonca
 Mathew Roseberry,                                          Joe Fiorica,
 Director of Information Technology                         Deputy Chief of Administration
                                                                                                                    P12
                                                                    Pricing Proposal
                                                                    Quotation #: 27293769
                                                                    Created On: 3/17/2026
                                                                    Valid Until: 3/27/2026


                                                                                    - - - · ---    ------- - -- -------·· -
CA-County of Sacramento Metropolitan
Fire District                                                       Inside Account Executive

Mathew Roseberry                                                    Dave Stanley
10545 Armstrong Ave                                                 290 Davidson AVE
suite 200                                                           Somerset, NJ 08873
Mather, CA 95655                                                    Phone: 800-527-6389
United States                                                       Email: dave_stanley@shi.com
Phone: (916) 859-4340
Email: roseberry.mathew@metrofire.ca.gov
                                                                                   - - --- - ----··-·

All Prices are in US Dollar (USO)
      Product                                                              Qty           Retail   Your Price                          Total
                                                                                  - - - - - - - ------- --------·
  1   Cisco Wireless 9172I(W7,3 radio,3 band 2x2),Global                    89      $1,676.64        $704.19                 $62,672.91
       Cisco Systems - Part#: CW9172I-RTG
       Contract Name: OMNIA Partners IT Solutions, Products & Services
       Contract #: 2024056-02
                                                   --------------·
  2   Meraki MR Enterprise License, 1YR                                     89         $200.70        $100.35                     $8,931.15
       Cisco Systems - Part#: LIC-ENT-1YR
       Contract Name: OMNIA Partners IT Solutions, Products & Services
       Contract#: 2024056-02
      ·- -- --------~-- --------- · · - - -       ·-- - - - ---- --
  3   Catalyst 91661AP (W6E, trl-band 4x4) w/MERAKI                          3.     $3,051.47      $1,342.65                      $4,027.95
       Cisco Systems - Part#: CW9166I-MR
       Contract Name: OMNIA Partners IT Solutions, Products & Services
       Contract #: 2024056-02
      - - --- - - - - - --· - - - - - - - - -                            ··- - -----·--··----··---·-···--··- - - --- - -
  4   Meraki MR Enterprise License, 1YR                                      3         $200.70        $100.35                      $301 .05
       Cisco Systems - Part#: LIC-ENT-1YR
       Contract Name: OMNIA Partners IT Solutions, Products & Services
       Contract#: 2024056-02


  5   Meraki MS130-24 Cloud Managed 24GE Switch                             11      $2,138.51         $855.40                     $9,409.40
       Cisco Systems - Part#: MS130-24
       Contract Name: OMNIA Partners IT Solutions, Products & Services
       Contract#: 2024056-02
                    - - - - - -- ---- -- ·-------·-·-·---·--·--------·----··-·- ·-·---·
  6   Merakl MS130-24 Enterprise License and Support, 1 Year                11         $172.86          $77.79                     $855.69
       Cisco Systems - Part#: LIC-MS130-24-1Y




                                                                                                  ···-·- - ·····- ·- ··- - ·· -    - --P13
                                                                                                                                        ---
     Contract Name: OMNIA Partners IT Solutions, Products & Services
     Contract#: 2024056-02


7 Meraki MS130-24P Cloud Managed 24GE 370W PoE Switch                            55       $3,443.46        $1,377.38          $75,755.90
     Cisco Systems - Part#: MS130-24P
     Contract Name: OMNIA Partners IT Solutions, Products & Services
     Contract#: 2024056-02


8   Meraki MS130-24 Enterprise License and Support, 1 Year                        55        $172.86            $77.79           $4,278.45
     Cisco Systems - Part#: LIC-MS130-24-1Y
     Contract Name: OMNIA-Partners IT Solutions, Products & Services
     Contract #: 2024056-02


9   Meraki MS130-48 Cloud Managed 48GE Switch                                      8      $3,794.13         $1,517.65         $12,141.20
      Cisco Systems - Part#: MS130-48
      Contract Name: OMNIA Partners IT Solutions, Products & Services
      Contract #: 2024056-02


10 Meraki MS130-48 Enterprise License and Support, 1 Year                          8        $298.49           $134.32           $1,074.56
      Cisco Systems - Part#: LIC-MS130-48-1Y
      Contract Name: OMNIA Partners IT Solutions, Products & Services
      Contract#: 2024056-02


11 Meraki MS130-48P Cloud Managed 48GE 740W PoE Switch                              4      $6,151.08        $2,460.43           $9,841.72
      Cisco Systems - Part#: MS130-48P
      Contract Name: OMNIA Partners IT Solutions, Products & Services
      Contract#: 2024056-02


12 Meraki MS130-48 Enterprise License and Support, 1 Year                           4        $298.49           $134.32            $537.28
      Cisco Systems - Part#: LIC-MS130-48-1Y
      Contract Name: OMNIA Partners IT Solutions, Products & Services
      Contract#: 2024056-02

                                                                                              I 5✓ 9 7 3 .I;J *Tax             $13,473.30
                                                                                                                  Total       $203,300.56
                                                                         *Tax is estimated. Invoice will include the full and final tax due.

                                                                                                          ·10JC\-/.fz 0~ OJ 1 . e5
                                                                                                                         ~
Additional Comments


Due to ongoing global component shortages affecting memory, storage, and other critical hardware, OEMs have               \
implemented updated policies allowing for price adjustments up until the time of shipment. Accordingly, quoted prices and
lead times are subject to change prior to shipment. We remain committed to keeping you informed of any changes and will
communicate promptly as updates occur.

Thank you for choosing SHI International Corp! The pricing offered on this quote proposal is valid through the expiration date listed
above. To ensure the best level of service, please provide End User Name, Phone Number, Email Address and applicable Contract
Number when submitting a Purchase Order. For any additional information including Hardware, Software and Services Contracts,
please contact an SHI Inside Sales Representative at (888) 744-4084. SHI International Corp. is 100% Minority Owned, Woman
Owned Business. TAX ID# 22-3009648; DUNS# 61-1429481; CCR# 61-2439578; CAGE 1HTF0

Cisco's Terms and Conditions apply to all hardware, software, cloud services, subscriptions, technical support and maintenance
included in a Cisco offer.


                                                                                                                                               P14
                                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   1             I
                                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (91 6) 859-4300 • Fax (91 6) 859-3702

~♦;*
ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief

       DATE:                   March 26, 2026
       TO:                     Board of Directors
       SUBJECT:                Continuing Emergency Work Approval - 10545 Armstrong Avenue

                                                    TOPIC
       Request to make a determination that an emergency continues to exist and authorize
       contracting without a competitive solicitation for bids pursuant to PCC Section 22050 for the
       repair, demolition, and clean-up services required to restore 10545 Armstrong Avenue to a
       condition safe for occupancy.
                                                 BACKGROUND
       On February 8, 2026 a fire occurred on the second floor of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
       District (District) headquarters building located at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California
       95655, which damaged portions of the first and second floors of the building. On February 12,
       2026, the District's Board of Directors (Board) adopted Resolution 2026-003 authorizing and
       approving a declaration of emergency on February 8, 2026, pursuant to Public Contract Code
       Sections 22035 and 22050 for emergency repairs, demolition, and clean-up at 10545 Armstrong
       Avenue, Mather, California 95655, and finding that the emergency will not permit delay resulting
       from competitive solicitation of bids. Pursuant to Public Contract Code Sections 22035 and
       22050, the Board is required to continue to review this emergency action at every regularly
       scheduled meeting thereafter until the action is terminated, to determine, by a four-fifths vote,
       that there is a need to continue the action. The Board shall terminate the action at the earliest
       possible date that conditions warrant to do so.
                                                           .,
                                                DISCUSSION
       Mitigation and restoration work is underway to restore the impacted areas to a condition safe for
       occupancy. Staff is continuing to assess the total impact of this work from a budgetary and
       scheduling standpoint.

                                              FISCAL IMPACT
       The fiscal impact is currently unknown for this request, but is expected to exceed the California
       Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Act's threshold for contracting public projects
       without an informal procedure.
                                           RECOMMENDATION
       Staff recommends that the Board make a determination th 9t an emergency continues to exist
       and authorize contracting without a competitive solicitation· for bids pursuant to PCC Section
       22050 for the repair, demolition, and clean-up services required to restore 10545 Armstrong
       Avenue to a condition safe for occupancy.

       Submitted by:                                                         Approved by:
             ~
        Adam Mitchell (Mar 17, 2026 20:34:31 EDT)
                                                                               Ada111 House
                                                                               .A1:h"!'I Houw jUll 17 202617."534POQ

       Adam Mitchell, Deputy Chief                                           Adam A House, Fire Chief
       Support Services & EMS



                                                    Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                                                    P15
