                      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                      10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief                                    ADOPTED
                      ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - SPECIAL MEETING

                                  BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                          SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                            Thursday, August 7, 2025 at 5:30 p.m.
                                  Held at the following locations:
                              10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                         Mather, California
                                                  &
                                        Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 5:31 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
  Clark, Jones, Rice, Saylors, Stark, Webber, and Wood. Board members on Zoom: Goold.
  Board members absent: Costa. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  No public comments were received .

  ACTION ITEMS

  1.        Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement - Captain Michael Ryan Gifford
            Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
            finding Michael Ryan Gifford has suffered job-related injuries incapacitating him for the
            performance of duties as a Captain, and direct staff to continue working with Captain
            Gifford through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
            Action: None, item to be voted on after discussion in Closed Session.

  CLOSED SESSION:
  The Board recessed to closed session at 5:33 p.m. on the following matter(s):

  1. PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (a) -
     ONE (1) MATTER OF INDUSTRIAL DISABILITY RETIREMENT.

       1.    Michael Ryan Gifford and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
             Claim # # 4A2301 SLCVZ0001 - Industrial Disability Retirement
             Joseph Fiorica, Deputy Chief of Administration

  CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:
  The Board reconvened in open session at 6:10 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
  that the Board met in closed session on one item: 1. Industrial Disability Retirement of
  Captain Michael Ryan Gifford, no reportable action was taken in closed session.
ACTION ITEM CONTINUED TO AFTER CLOSED SESSION:

1.    Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement - Captain Michael
      Ryan Gifford
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
      finding Michael Ryan Gifford has suffered job-related injuries incapacitating him for the
      performance of duties as a Captain, and direct staff to continue working with Captain
      Gifford through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
      Action: Moved by Director Rice, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-055, finding Captain Michael Ryan Gifford
      has suffered job-related injuries incapacitating him for the performance of duties.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2025-08-07-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA


ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 6: 11 p.m.




Ted Wood, Board Preside~                             Robert Webber, Secretary

            '       .
Marni Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk




8.7.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes - Special Meeting                    Page 2 of 2
