Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, May 6, 2025

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

Vice President Corona Sabeniano called the regular meeting to order at 6:32 p.m. Other
Board members present in person: Harold Fong, Paul Keefer, Heather Davis. Board
members participated via Zoom: Bina Lefkovitz and Vanessa Caigoy. President Alfred
Brown was absent. SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing Students Judith
Marquez was present.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Dr.
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendents Nicolas Schweizer and Brent Malicote, Assistant Superintendent
Jacqueline “Jackie” White; Executive Director Jerry Jones; and Executive Assistant
Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Fong led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Vice President Corona Sabeniano read a Land Acknowledgement.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

There were two public comments from SCOE employees Sean Frame and Jim Melrose
regarding SCOE negotiations with CSEA.

There were three public comments in support of Miracle University becoming a charter
school: Aaron Cardoza, Tawonna Johnson, and Felicia Ladson.

B. Employee Organizations

CSEA President Wendi Beatty provided a report on progress in negotiations.

3. Approval of Minutes




05.06.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         1
A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of March 4, 2025

Motion by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Caigoy
Absent: Brown

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented by Trustee Keefer,
   second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Caigoy
Absent: Brown

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

Tonight, Board President Dr. Brown, and Trustees Caigoy and Lefkovitz are in
Washington, DC advocating for public education at the 53rd Sacramento Metro Cap-to-
Cap event. We look forward to hearing them report back to us at our next meeting.

On April 16, we celebrated the graduation of five El Centro Jr./Sr. High School students.
Thank you Board President Dr. Brown, Vice President Corona Sabeniano, and Trustees
Lefkovitz and Caigoy for attending in support of our graduates.

On April 19, we held the final recognition event for our 2025 Sacramento County
Teachers of the Year at the River Cats game. Thank you to our sponsor, Schools First
Federal Credit Union. Thank you Board President Dr. Brown, Vice President Corona
Sabeniano, and Trustee Caigoy for joining us.

On April 24, SCOE joined with local partners and community members to honor Placer
Reentry Program graduates during an inspiring ceremony at the Health & Human
Services Center in Auburn. The event marked the 10th anniversary of SCOE’s reentry
program in Placer County—a milestone in a broader initiative that spans six counties
and reflects a deep commitment to second chances, workforce readiness, and
community reintegration. The ceremony featured testimonials from graduates, whose
stories of resilience and growth underscored the program’s life-changing impact as well
as remarks from Congressman Kevin Kiley. Superintendent Gordon expressed our


05.06.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          2
appreciation for the staff at Placer County Probation, California Department of
Corrections and Rehabilitation, and dedicated Probation Officers and Parole Agents.
And a special thank you to Assistant Superintendent Michael Kast, Reentry Director
Christi Fee, and Program Manager Victoria Rochester, who emceed at the event, as
well as Trustees Keefer and Caigoy for attending.

On April 28, SCOE hosted the 13th Annual State Seal of Biliteracy Recognition
Ceremony at Cordova High School, honoring the linguistic and academic achievements
of high school seniors. Nearly 2,400 students in Sacramento County earned the Seal of
Biliteracy this year—demonstrating proficiency in 29 different languages. Remarkably,
100 students earned seals in more than one language, a testament to the growing
strength of multilingualism in our region. Board President Dr. Brown and Trustee Caigoy
joined the celebration, reinforcing the Sacramento County Board of Education’s
commitment to honoring language, culture, and academic excellence. Special thanks go
to Graciela García-Torres, SCOE’s Seal of Biliteracy Coordinator, for organizing the
event, and to all the educators and families who support and uplift our multilingual
learners every day.

On April 30, we celebrated the 15 Year Anniversary of the LINKS Mentoring program.
The LINKS Mentoring program has offered support by providing staff and volunteers to
facilitate mentoring sessions with youth in SCOE programs and the Juvenile Hall
Program. We honored past and present LINKS mentors who have devoted many hours
to this effort. Thank you to both Trustees Lefkovitz and Davis for being longtime
supporters of this program.

On May 4, CSU Sacramento hosted the 2025 California History Day Awards Ceremony,
celebrating over 1,500 student participants from 25 counties across California. This
year’s theme, “Rights and Responsibilities in History,” offered students the opportunity
to explore and analyze the pivotal moments and movements that have shaped our
society through the lens of historical rights and civic duty. Thank you to Deputy
Superintendent Dr. Herota for delivering remarks on behalf of SCOE and highlighting
the power of historical inquiry to build informed, thoughtful citizens. Coordinator Craig
Irish and his team lead this effort. Their coordination, along with the generous support of
CSU Sacramento, and a dedicated group of judges and volunteers, made this event a
resounding success.

On April 26, SCOE launched its first-ever Superintendent’s Youth Advisory Council. The
event welcomed student leaders from across the county who are committed to
advancing civic education and engagement in their schools and communities. It is
important that students are taught from an early age that civic engagement is not
reserved for adulthood—it starts with students who care, act, and lead. These council
members are vital to helping reimagine civic learning as a foundational part of the entire
K–12 experience, not just a single class or unit. This inaugural meeting marks a key
step toward creating a student-driven model for civic education that could influence
statewide and national efforts.




05.06.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            3
In recognition of our staff, SCOE is hosting several celebratory events in May. On the
morning of May 13, SCOE employees with 30, 35, 40, and 45+ years of service will be
honored at the Legacy of Dedication Ceremony. And on May 20, in recognition of
Classified School Employees Week, which is May 18-24, SCOE is hosting an Ice Cream
Social for staff. Then, SCOE’s most recent retirees will be recognized during our
Celebratory Retirement Dinner on May 28. And finally, and we hope you will join us, on
May 30, our Annual End of Year Employee Recognition is taking place at the Scottish
Rite Masonic Center in Sacramento. Our keynote speaker will be former Sacramento
Chief of Police, Daniel Hahn.

On May 8 and May 9, Foundations Academy is hosting graduations at the SCOE
Conference Center. The graduations start at 10:30 a.m. each day.

On May 23, the Senior Extension/Community Schools Graduation is scheduled for 1:00
p.m. at the Scottish Rite Masonic Center.

On May 28, Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School is hosting an 8th Grade Promotion and
High School Graduation Ceremony. This year’s 8th Grade Promotion and High School
Graduation Ceremonies will be combined as there is only one high school graduate.
Combining the events provides our high school graduate the opportunity to celebrate
this milestone in a meaningful ceremony alongside other students.

On May 15, we are hosting a School-to-World Awards Ceremony at Leo A. Palmiter
Jr./Sr. High School. The School-to-World program is a partnership between SCOE and
area businesses that offers students valuable entry-level job experience.

The annual SEL & Wellness Summit is taking place on May 15–16 at the SAFE Credit
Union Convention in Sacramento. The 2025 Summit theme is Relationship-Centered
Schools.

Also in May, SCOE is one of seven host sites for a “Visual Greenbook”—a compelling
art exhibition entitled “Searching for Sanctuary” by renowned artist Milton 510 Bowens.
In addition to SCOE, installations can be found at CSU Sacramento, all four Los Rios
Community Colleges, and Improve Your Tomorrow. This evocative exhibit explores what
safety means for Black people in the diaspora—especially in America. Through dynamic
visual storytelling, Bowens explores the fragility of safety when it is externally controlled,
and the deep strength that emerges when sanctuary is created by and for the
community. Events are scheduled on Tuesday, May 20, here at the David P. Meaney
Education Center and on Saturday, May 24 at The Guild Theater.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Fong.




05.06.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                               4
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Caigoy
Absent: Brown

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
   White/Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendent White announced that the following students will be awarded
a diploma: 10 candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School, one candidate from
Cordova Lane Senior Extension, two candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School,
three candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Sr. Extension, one candidate from North
Area Community School, and five candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

D. Declaration of Equipment Listed as Surplus Property and Authorization to Auction
Property Pursuant to Education Code - Michael Kast/Nicolas Schweizer

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve Capital Public Radio, Inc. contract by Trustee Fong, second by
Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano
Abstain: Caigoy
Absent: Brown

Motion to approve Equifax contract by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy
Absent: Brown

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget -
David W. Gordon

A. No Grants

10. New Business - Other




05.06.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        5
A. Adoption of Resolution No. 25-05 - California Day of the Teacher - May 14, 2025 -
Xanthi Soriano

Motion to approve by Trustee Caigoy, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy
Absent: Brown

B. Adoption of Resolution No. 25-06 - Declaring May 18-24, 2025 as Classified School
Employee Week - Xanthi Soriano

Motion to adopt Resolution No. 25-06 by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy
Absent: Brown

C. Appointment of Individuals to the Local Child Care and Development Planning
Council 2024-2026 - Dr. Channa Pitt

Motion to approve by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy
Absent: Brown

D. Oversight of Capital College & Career Academy - Dr. Nancy Herota

Motion by Trustee Davis to approve Dr. Matthew Perry to provide oversight of
the Capital College & Career Academy, second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Corona Sabeniano, Caigoy
Absent: Brown

E. Board Report - College & Career - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent White presented the College & Career Board report. Other
SCOE staff presented portions of the report: Jane Collier, Director II, College and
Career Readiness Initiatives; Chris Aland, Director of Student Programs, Michelle
McIntosh, Coordinator, College and Career Readiness Initiatives; and Nayeli Chaidez,
Coordinator, Dual Enrollment.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas




05.06.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         6
A. Board Members

Trustee Fong commented about the Miracle University Charter petition and asked for a
report. He also stated that he hopes SCOE and CSEA will quickly resolve a contract.

SCOE Appointed Student Board Member Judith Marquez provided a Student Advisory
Committee update. The students watched the Fentanyl High screening and SCOE
Coordinator of Youth Development Programs, Alicia Williams facilitated a discussion
and answered questions for the students after the screening. Ms. Marquez reported that
a Sacramento Underground Tour and Railroad Museum field trip is planned for Hickey
students.

Trustee Davis expressed interest in viewing the Fentanyl High Screening.

Trustee Keefer stated that SB 249 by Umberg would move the elections of five county
offices to align with the national election, and this would take away local control. The
Governor previously vetoed a similar bill. Trustee Keefer suggested that we coalesce
around local control of our own elections. He expressed his support for SB 414 by
Ashby which has common sense language for charter schools about oversight, both for
district and auditing purposes. He commented that there is a counter bill AB 84 by
Muratsuchi that claims to do the same thing, but it looks to decimate independent study
charter schools by taking away funding because their perceived notion is that they do
not use their money. This would impact approximately 200,000 students in the State and
a lot of those students are in Sacramento County. Trustee Keefer expressed interest in
having the Board oppose SB 249 and support AB 414 by way of a letter and/or testifying
in support of.

Trustee Lefkovitz stated that attending Cap to Cap and Coast2Coast Events was
beneficial to her. Coast2Coast was around networking and advocacy with school Board
members around the State, and Cap to Cap was a regional event with the Metro
Chamber. In both cases the networking has been valuable to let people know what we
do, and to learn about others. The Coast2Coast event provided an opportunity to go to
the hill and advocate around preventing cuts to Title 1 and Medicaid funding, as well as
to encourage support of the teacher pipeline funding. At Cap to Cap the team was
focused on workforce and literacy. Trustee Lefkovitz stated that she thinks literacy
awareness has been increased through networking as well as at the hill with our
legislators. She questioned the Board's interest in advocacy and if/how the Board sees
their role as advocates. Trustee Lefkovitz requested an update regarding Miracle
University and if there is the potential for a contract with them to work with our students.

General Counsel Teresa Stinson provided an update stating that SCOE is gathering
documentation regarding Miracle University as discussed at the Executive Committee.
SCOE will provide an update in June on the contract issue and continues working
through the Charter petition. Information on both of those items will be provided as soon
as possible.




05.06.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             7
Trustee Lefkovitz stated that if Miracle University does not become a charter, and if
SCOE cannot contract with them, the County Board and a County Office need to
address the dropout issue. She also expressed agreement with Trustee Fong’s idea to
keep our students rather than return them to their districts if they want to stay with us.

Trustee Lefkovitz stated that the transition to a new student board member was
discussed in the Executive Committee. She reported that she along with Board
President Dr. Brown, and Vice President Corona Sabeniano interviewed two students
and that one of the students would be good for this position. She said the discussion
was to do the transition by the end of August. She also reported that, in addition, SCOE
staff are going to update the student board member policy, and this item will be on the
May 20, 2025 Board agenda.

Trustee Caigoy stated that she echoes the comments from Trustee Lefkovitz around
Cap to Cap and the advocacy efforts happening in Washington, DC. She also stated
agreement with Trustee Keefer about supporting SB 414 and opposing SB 249.

Trustee Caigoy reported that she attended the State Seal of Biliteracy ceremony for our
students across the county and that she needs to learn how to say congratulations in 29
new languages for next year’s ceremony.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano stated that she also attended Coast2Coast and shared
some materials from the event and invited her colleagues to read more about the
advocacy topics. She reported that they had four meetings with Congressmen Bera,
Matsui, Kiley, and McClintock, and out of those meetings it was clear to her, that there's
work to be done to educate them about our mission and why some of these programs
are so important for our students. She also provided an update about the Board idea log
process and that it will be implemented at the May 20, 2025 Board meeting.

B. Board President - no report.

C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution

A. May Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. May 20, 2025 and June 10, 2025

14. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to Adjourn Meeting by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.



05.06.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                               8
Final Resolution: Motion Carried

Yes: Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Caigoy
Absent: Brown

The meeting adjourned at 8:40 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,



David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




05.06.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                  9
