Sacramento County Board of Education Special Meeting - 6:00 p.m.

Tuesday, September 13, 2022

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

Acting President Davis called the open session to order at 6:05 p.m. Other Board
members present: Bina Lefkovitz, Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Harold Fong, Joanne
Ahola, and Alfred Brown. Trustee Keefer was not present.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Executive Director Jerry Jones; and Executive
Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Brown lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

Acting President Davis asked if there were any public comments before recessing into
Closed Session. There were no public comments.

Acting President Davis stated that the meeting will recess and the Board will convene in
closed session under Government Code Section 54956(d) regarding pending litigation,
Application No. 22-802 to the California Attorney General to file Complaint in Quo
Warranto. The Board has provided public notice that the Board will meet in closed
session for this purpose.

Recessed Open Session 6:06 p.m.

2. Closed Session

A. Conference with Legal Counsel - Pending Litigation under Government Code section
54956.9(d) - Application No. 22-802 to California Attorney General to file Complaint in
Quo Warranto

Convened Closed Session at 6:12 p.m.

Adjourned Closed Session at 7:32 p.m.



09.13.22 Special Meeting Minutes                                                       1
3. Report from Closed Session

A. Reconvene to Open Session and Report Action Taken in Closed Session (if taken)
The Board reconvened Open Session at 7:37 p.m.

Acting President Davis reported that, in Closed Session, the Board approved a motion
to defend Quo Warranto Application No. 22-802 and related proceedings, if requested.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Joanne Ahola; Trustee
Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Alfred Brown
No: Trustee Harold Fong
Absent: Trustee Paul Keefer was not present in Closed Session and did not participate
in the Board’s discussion or decision.

4. Visitor Presentations

A. No public comments

5. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to adjourn meeting by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Absent: Trustee Paul Keefer

The meeting adjourned at 7:39 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,


Date approved:




09.13.22 Special Meeting Minutes                                                        2
