Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
Tuesday, June 14, 2022 – 6:30 p.m.

MINUTES - Unapproved

1. Procedural

A. Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

B. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Talamantes called the meeting to order at 6:32 p.m. Other Board members
present: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Alfred Brown, and
Joanne Ahola.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Nancy
Herota, Deputy Superintendent, Tim Herrera, Director; Jerry Jones, Michael Kast,
Executive Directors; Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; Nicolas Schweizer, Associate
Superintendent; Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendent; and Wende Watson,
Executive Assistant.

C. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Fong lead the Pledge.

2. No Approval of Minutes

3. Adoption of Agenda

Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented by Trustee Davis, second
by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

4. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

5. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

There were no public comments.
B. Employee Organizations

There were no requests from employee organizations.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
Summer School started for Senior Extension and the Community School programs on
June 6. The community school will run one three-week session. Senior Extension will
run two, three-week sessions.

SPECIAL EDUCATION UPDATE
All Special Education sites are out for summer break. Our Extended School Year
program started June 13 and will run through July 8. A 3-day summer professional
development series is being planned for all school staff.

DIVERSITY, EQUITY, & INCLUSION WORK
Today, our Mental Health and Wellness team hosted a special workshop for SCOE
employees titled “LGBTQIA2S Brave Zone Training: Serving LGBTQIA2S Youth in
Schools.” The professional learning session addressed pronoun usage, terminology,
gender identity, sexual orientation, laws/polices, and ways to improve school climate.
Thanks to Mental Health & Wellness Coordinator Daniel Cisneros and School-Based
Mental Health & Wellness Clinician Iso Marcus for facilitating this workshop to help staff
better serve our students.

SCOE GRADUATIONS
On June 2, we celebrated the successes of nearly 100 of our community school
students who earned their high school diplomas. The graduating class was so large that
we needed a larger venue, so we held our ceremony at the Sacramento Scottish Rite
Temple. The event honored students who completed their diplomas in four years, and
many who needed more time to graduate with the help and support of our Senior
Extension Program. During the ceremony, we highlighted students who received
scholarships from our Gary K. Hart Resiliency Scholarship Program and students
actively involved in our construction program, who received scholarships from the
Sacramento Regional Builders Exchange. On June 3, we honored 10 members of the
2022 graduating class from Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School. Superintendent Gordon
is proud to reportthat nine of the 10 have jobs.

SLY PARK UPDATE
We made the difficult decision to cancel the residential component of our Sly Park
Outdoor Environmental program last week because of COVID related staffing issues.
We worked with the districts to provide virtual learning options and daytrips for the
schools that were scheduled to attend. Superintendent Gordon greatly appreciates the
flexibility and resilience of the Sly Park staff as we have navigated this past school year.
RIVER CATS/CLASSIFIED SCHOOL EMPLOYEES EVENT
On June 12, the Sacramento River Cats hosted the Sacramento County Classified
School Employees of the Year at a special recognition event during a game against the
Reno Aces. Many thanks to Schools First Federal Credit Union for sponsoring a suite at
Sutter Health Park and providing food and refreshments for classified employees and
guests.

SCHOOL TO WORLD AWARDS
On May 26, we celebrated students involved in our WorkAbility Program and staff at our
Palmiter and Hickey campuses during the Annual "School to World" Awards. The
program is a partnership between SCOE and more than 25 area businesses that offers
students valuable entry-level job experience, and an active way to learn social skills.

CSBA CONFERENCE
Registration for the CSBA Annual Education Conference and Trade Show opened June
7. The conference is scheduled for December 1–3, 2022 in San Diego. If you are
interested in attending, please contact Wende Watson.

SCHOOL SAFETY
In the wake of the tragic school shooting in Uvalde, Texas, Superintendent Gordon
wanted to discuss school safety procedures and protocols. In Sacramento County, each
district is required to develop and approve annual Comprehensive School Safety Plans.
SCOE develops safety plans for our schools and is not authorized to approve such
plans for districts, nor does SCOE offer security training or support for our districts.
Either law enforcement or private contractors provide these services. Regarding SCOE
schools, through a grant from the California Office of Emergency Services, we received
funds to upgrade our school in-classroom PA systems to a new digital emergency
notification system. The system allows principals or managers to issue an alert from a
cell phone, desk phone, or web browser. Many districts around the state use this type of
system. We are working with a vendor to create a new Emergency Operations Plan and
provide active shooter training. We also are working on purchasing and implementing a
new Emergency Management System for on-campus emergencies, including
communicating with all staff during an emergency using cell phones. This system
focuses more on emergency management rather than just classroom notifications.
Another valuable resource for all Sacramento County school districts, including SCOE,
is Schools Insurance Authority (SIA), which provides several helpful services in this
area.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

By approval of the consent agenda, the following items were approved:

B. Accept Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students – Jacqueline White
/Michael Kast

Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendent, announced that the following students will
be awarded a diploma: 2 candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School; 16
candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School Senior Extension; 18 candidates
from Cordova Lane Senior Extension; 28 candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior
Extension; and 34 candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Motion to approve by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

A. TEACH California Grant - Jerry Jones

B. WorkAbility I Grant - Jerry Jones

C. California Adult Education Program Technical Assistance Project (CAEP TAP) Grant
- Dr. Nancy Herota

D. Outreach and Technical Assistance Network (OTAN) Grant - Dr. Nancy Herota

E. Local Child Care Development Planning Council Grant - Brent Malicote
F. Quality Counts California Workforce Pathways Grant - Brent Malicote

G. Community Based Coalition Program-California Department of Corrections and
Rehabilitation (CDCR) Grant - Jacqueline White

H. Early Head Start Grant - Brent Malicote

10. New Business - Other

A. 2022-2023 Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP)

Jacqueline White presented on the 2022-2023 Local Control and Accountability Plan
(LCAP).

B. Notice of Public Hearing for the 2022-2023 Local Control and Accountability Plan
(LCAP)

The Public Hearing opened at 6:59 p.m.

There were no public comments.

The Public Hearing closed at 7:04 p.m.

C. 2022-2023 Proposed Budget

Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer introduced Budget Committee Chair
Heather Davis to report on the 2022-2023 Proposed Budget.

Trustee Davis provided this report.

D. Notice of Public Hearing for 2022-2023 Proposed Budget

The Public Hearing opened at 7:12 p.m.

There were no public comments.

The Public Hearing closed at 7:17 p.m.

E. Adoption of Resolution No. 22-12 - Resolution to Pay Absent Board Member

Motion by Trustee Brown to adopt Resolution No. 22-12, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee
Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Abstain: Trustee Karina Talamantes
F. Board Report - Year in Review

Superintendent Gordon provided the Year in Review 2021-2022 Report which included
a video recap of various activities and SCOE related news from last year.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola reported that she will not be present for the June 28 meeting and
expressed her appreciation for President Talamantes serving on the SCOE Board, as
well as thanked Communications Director Tim Herrera for his service as he is retiring at
the end of June.

Trustee Brown also acknowledged and thanked Communications Director Tim Herrera
prior to his retirement.

Trustee Lefkovitz provided updates from the May 17 Curriculum Committee meeting
stating that a new science curriculum was approved. She pointed out that it is Happy
Pride Month and Juneteenth. She also shared reflections from the last two months while
campaigning. She learned that many people do not know what SCOE does, and she
spent a lot of time educating people about SCOE programs and services. Also, while
talking to a lot of people, at least part of the community expressed disappointment in the
public education system. There were concerns about student mental health and a lot of
gut-wrenching special education stories. She reported that she learned that many
families are pulling their students out of public school while others are waiting it out.

Trustee Keefer congratulated Trustee Lefkovitz for a hard-won battle and wished
President Talamantes the best as she leaves the Board to serve on the City Council. He
also stated that today is Flag Day and that he was the third one on his street to put his
flag out.

Trustee Davis is going to the Fortune graduation tomorrow. She also has mentoring
training for juvenile hall. She thanked Superintendent Gordon for his responsiveness to
the Board whenever he is asked for assistance. She wondered if there is a way to
improve the substitute teacher shortage prior to next year.

Trustee Fong congratulated Trustees Lefkovitz and Keefer on their reelections. He
expressed that he is proud that we survived another school year with the challenges of
COVID. He asked about a letter of support or a resolution for an item that qualified for
the November ballot around art and music in the schools. He also expressed a desire
for the Board to make a statement to the public about school violence. COVID infection
rates are the highest since the last surge. Trustee Fong requested Zoom access for
public comments and for the safety of those with health concerns.
B. Board President

President Talamantes thanked Superintendent Gordon for acknowledging the violence
in Uvalde, Texas. She agrees with Trustee Fong regarding Zoom access for the public
to participate in meetings.

C. There were no Committees reports.

12. Items for Distribution

A. June/July Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. June 28, 2022
B. July 12, 2022

14. Adjourn the Meeting

A. Motion to adjourn by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

The meeting adjourned at 8:10 p.m.

Respectfully Submitted,


Date approved:
