                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                          Thursday, December 11, 2025 – 6:00 p.m.
Ted Wood                                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                              10545 Armstrong Avenue, Suite 200
Division 4
                                                 Boardroom – Second Floor
John Costa                                            Mather, California
Board Vice President
Division 9
                                                              &
                                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                   Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                     Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                    Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member            https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFlLQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Division 1

Grant Goold
Board Member           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D’Elman Clark
Board Member
                       Application, please click on the link above.
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member           reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member           accommodations:
Division 8
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                              THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2025


 CALL TO ORDER

 ROLL CALL

 PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video-
streamed at metro14live.saccounty.gov. Today’s meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
December 15, 2025, and again at 6:00 p.m. on Wednesday, December 17, 2025, on
Metro Cable Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-
demand at youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the
presiding officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the
interest of time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations.
Speakers’ comments will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures,
members of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting
record must be present or have a representative present to read their comments during
the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral
of issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly
approval, declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent
Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion
and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                    Page No.


1.     2026 Schedule of Regular Board and Committee Meetings                    7
       Recommendation: Approve the 2026 schedule of regular board and committee
       meetings.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                            THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2025


2.   Adopt Resolutions – Amendment to FY 2025/26 Capital Improvement                                                     9
     Program Plan Recommendation: Adopt Resolutions amending the FY 2025/26
     Capital Improvement Program Plan and amending the budget for Measure O
     Building Fund 212O.

3.   Adopt Resolution – Deferred Compensation Plan Committee Charter             12
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
     District Deferred Compensation Plan Committee Charter.

4.   Purchase Approval – Motorola Portable Radios                              20
     Recommendation: Approve the purchase of APX Next Series Portable Radio from
     Motorola using the County of Sacramento Open Item Contract #WA00034181.

5.   Adopt Resolution – Contract Award – Debt Collection Services                          29
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving a contract award to Kelstin Group,
     Inc. dba Pacific Credit Services and authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to
     negotiate, execute, and administer an agreement materially similar to the attached
     agreement. Staff further recommends that the Board authorize the Fire Chief or his
     designee to negotiate, execute, and administer an agreement with the next highest
     ranked proposer if, after having bargained in good faith, the District is unable to
     conclude a final agreement with the highest ranked proposer within 14 calendar
     days. This contract shall be in effect for three years from the date of agreement and
     may be extended for up to two additional twelve-month periods.

6.   Adopt Resolution – Mobile Integrated Health Service Agreement – County         57
     of Sacramento
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the Fire Chief or his designee to
     execute and administer an agreement with the County of Sacramento for MIH
     Services.

7.   Purchase Approval – Oracle Support from CherryRoad Technologies Inc.              59
     Recommendation: Approve the purchase of Oracle ERP support and project hours
     from CherryRoad Technologies Inc., utilizing NASPO ValuePoint contract #AR2476,
     and authorize the continued use of this contract for future support and project hours
     as needed during FY 2025/2026.

8.   Revision of Board Policy 01.023.02 – Non-Retaliation Policy                                                        61
     Recommendation: Approve the revisions to the Non-Retaliation Policy.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.   Reflection and Recognition of our 25th Anniversary                                                                 **
     (President Ted Wood, Chief Adam Mitchell & Former Fire Chief Rick Martinez)
     Recommendation: Receive the presentation.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                            THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2025


2.   Ambulance & First Responder Fee Study & Ordinance Process                                                          71
     (Deputy Chief Adam Mitchell & Chief Financial Officer Dave O’Toole)
     Recommendation: Receive the presentation.

ACTION ITEMS:
1.   2026 Election of Board Officers                                                   84
     (Board Clerk Rittburg)
     Recommendation: Nominate and elect members of the Board to serve as:
     a) President, b) Vice President, and c) Secretary for one (1) year terms to commence
     on January 1, 2026.

2.   Adopt Resolution – Industrial Disability Retirement – Engineer Brenden                **
     Brown
     Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a
     Resolution finding Brenden Brown has suffered job-related injuries incapacitating him
     for the performance of duties as a Engineer, and direct staff to continue working with
     Brenden Brown through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.

3.   Adopt Resolution – Industrial Disability Retirement – Captain Eric                    **
     Kellenberger
     Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a
     Resolution finding Captain Kellenberger has suffered job-related injuries incapacitating
     him for the performance of duties as a Captain, and direct staff to continue working
     with Captain Kellenberger through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with
     CalPERS.

REPORTS:
1.   PRESIDENT’S REPORT — (President Wood)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT — (Deputy Chief Fiorica)

           OPERATIONS REPORT – (Deputy Chief Wagaman) – No Report

           ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT – (Deputy Chief Fiorica) – No Report

           SUPPORT & EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES REPORT – (Deputy
           Chief Mitchell)

3.   SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
     522 Vice President)
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                             THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2025


4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
      Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

      A.    Executive Committee – (President Wood)
            Next Meeting: TBD

      B.    Communications Center JPA – (Deputy Chief Fiorica)
            Next Meeting: December 9, 2025, at 9:00 a.m.
            SRFECC Annex – 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite B, Sacramento

      C.    Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Jones)
            Next Meeting: January 22, 2026, at 5:30 p.m.

      D.     Policy Committee – (Director Costa)
             Next Meeting: February 12, 2025, at 5:30 p.m.

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter(s):
1.    CONFERENCE WITH LABOR NEGOTIATOR
      Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6

      A. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522
      B. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522
      C. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522
      D. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees
      E. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees
      F. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: EMT and Paramedic Memorandum of Understanding
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                    THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2025


2. PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (a) –
   TWO (2) MATTERS OF INDUSTRIAL DISABILITY RETIREMENT.

     1.   Brenden Brown and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          Claim # 4A2211WXKVD0001; 24-177265 – Industrial Disability Retirement
          Joseph Fiorica, Deputy Chief of Administration

     2.   Eric Kellenberger and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          Claim # 24-180117; 24-182104 – Industrial Disability Retirement
          Joseph Fiorica, Deputy Chief of Administration

3.        CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL – ANTICIPATED LITIGATION –
          Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
          Section 54956.9 (b): One Case
                 Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
                 Colleen Young v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 John Lavra, General Counsel

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Suite 200, Mather, CA 95655

     •    Regular Board Meeting – January 8, 2026, at 6:00 p.m.

Posted on December 8, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.

_____________________________________
Marni Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
*    Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility.
