Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
Tuesday, April 18, 2023 – 6:30 p.m.

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with
   Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the regular meeting to order at 6:34 p.m. Other
Board members present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano (arrived at 6:35 p.m.),
Alfred Brown (via Zoom), Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Joanne Ahola, and
Bina Lefkovitz.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the
Board; Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota; General Counsel Teresa
Stinson; Associate Superintendent Nick Schweizer; Assistant
Superintendent Jacqueline White; Executive Directors Michael Kast, Xanthi
Soriano, and Jerry Jones; and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Davis led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

B. Employee Organizations

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Motion by Trustee Fong to approve the minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting of March 7, 2023, second by Trustee Davis.



04.18.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                          1
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Abstain: Trustee Corona Sabeniano

B. Motion by Trustee Corona Sabeniano to approve the minutes of the
Regular Board Meeting of March 21, 2023, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Abstain: Trustees Lefkovitz, Ahola

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion by Trustee Ahola to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as
   presented, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown,
Ahola

5. Official Correspondence

A. No Official Correspondence

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

EDUCATORS/STUDENTS COUNTYWIDE
We had a wonderful turnout at the National History Day event hosted by
Sacramento State this past weekend. Over 1,400 students, supported by
close to 250 judges, convened to compete for nationals which will be held
in Maryland in June. Although a representative from Sacramento County
was not selected to advance to the national level, four local students or
groups were recognized. In the Elementary Division, the Champion group
project was “Levi Strauss - The Man, The Idea and The Company” by
Eddie Sharp, Vedansh Shetty, and Samay Patel from Theodore Judah
Elementary School. In the Junior/Senior Division, the Honorable Mention
was awarded to Ashly Omalu from Sacramento Country Day School for


04.18.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                              2
their project, “The Autopsy that Changed the World”. Thank you Trustee
Lefkovitz for visiting on Saturday and thank you again to California State
University, Sacramento (CSUS) for hosting and our super SCOE staff led
by Craig Irish and Whitney Olson.

Yesterday, Dr. Nancy Herota and SCOE staff enjoyed attending the open
house at Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School. Thank you Trustees Lefkovitz
and Corona Sabeniano for being there to meet our staff and show your
support.

Coming up this weekend on April 23, SCOE and SchoolsFirst have teamed
up to recognize our 2023 Sacramento County Teachers of the Year at the
River Cats game and soon, SCOE will be congratulating our SCOE
nominee for the 2024 Sacramento County Teacher of the Year selection
process.

SCOE SCHOOLS
Tomorrow, we look forward to another graduation ceremony for El Centro
Jr./Sr. High School students. Thank you Trustees Keefer and Lefkovitz for
confirming your attendance. Every one of our graduation ceremonies,
whether large or small, is a significant milestone in the lives of students and
their families.

The murals at Elinor Lincoln Hickey and Nathaniel S. Colley, Jr./Sr. High
Schools are nearing completion, thanks to the help of local artists Milton
Bowens and Henry ‘Fisko’ Fisk, who inspired our students and brought out
their creative talents as well as their leadership ability in completing the
project. Thank you Trustee Lefkovitz for stopping by to encourage the
students and add some brush strokes to the Colley mural. Jackie White’s
staff will make plans for the mural installations in the next few months.

SCHOOL OF EDUCATION
This month, Tiera Crothers in our School of Education launched SCOE’s
Teacher Residency Program aimed at growing teachers with a multiple
subject credential focused on Transitional Kindergarten. To begin
recruitment efforts, promotional materials and a tool kit were created in
collaboration with our Communications team and the theme is “Be a Hero
to Our Kids. Become a Teacher." The toolkit offers flyers and social media
ads using a diverse selection of hero-like personas and was designed to
maintain a consistent brand while allowing districts to customize materials


04.18.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                 3
with their logo. The 2023-2024 goal is to fill 50 teacher residency
vacancies.

UPCOMING EVENTS
Also, this weekend, 409 leaders from the greater Sacramento region will be
descending upon Washington, DC to participate in the Sacramento Metro
Chamber of Commerce’s annual Cap-to-Cap program. Noted as the
nation’s largest advocacy group headed to DC, both private and public
sector representatives will be meeting with House, Senate, and federal
agency representatives. The four priorities this year focus on infrastructure,
healthy communities, flood and wildfire prevention, and workforce
development and education. Xanthi Soriano, for her first time, is this year’s
co-lead working with Valley Vision and Improve Your Tomorrow staff on the
Workforce Development and Education team. She will also be following the
CSBA’s Coast2Coast progress as that team will be in DC at the same time
advocating for public education. Safe travels to Trustees Dr. Brown,
Corona Sabeniano, and Davis, and, of course, Xanthi.

On May 3, Graciela Garcia-Torres and her team will host the State Seal of
Biliteracy event in-person and virtually at the Natomas High School Theater
starting at 4:30 p.m. to recognize hundreds of students from across the
county who have completed the requirements to earn the State Biliteracy
Seal.

Also, on May 3 at 9:00 a.m., there will be a Family and Community
Engagement (FACE) virtual workshop featuring resources to address the
needs of the whole child, focusing on how schools should collaborate with
families, caretakers, and community agencies.

Starting May 5 and going into June, SCOE will facilitate a series of
Listening Sessions organized by Jackie White and her team to gather input
from students enrolled in our school programs. These sessions will be led
by one of our school partners to best obtain authentic youth input.

B. Recognition of the May 2023 Employees of the Month - Xanthi Soriano

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Motion by Trustee Davis to approve Consent Agenda Items, second by
   Trustee Corona Sabeniano.


04.18.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                               4
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown,
Ahola

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
   White/Michael Kast

Executive Director Michael Kast announced that 5 students will be awarded
diplomas including 2 candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. Senior
Extension, and 3 candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School.

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. No Contracts

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service
Contracts and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts,
Positions, and Other Expenditures Associated with the Grants as
Outlined in the Proposed Budget – David W. Gordon

A. No Grants

10. New Business - Other

A. Adoption of Resolution No. 23-03 - 2022-2023 United Way Campaign -
   Xanthi Soriano

Executive Director Xanthi Soriano presented Resolution No. 23-03 in
support of the 2022-2023 United Way Campaign. She introduced Dr.
Dawnte Early, CEO of California Capital Region, who also shared about the
United Way Campaign.

Motion to approve by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown,
Ahola


04.18.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                           5
B. Adoption of Resolution No. 23-04 - Resolution to Pay Absent Board
Member - David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Fong.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Abstain: Trustee Ahola

C. Board Report - SCOE Schools 2022–2023 Midyear Data Report -
Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White introduced the SCOE Schools
2022-2023 Midyear Data Report and made the presentation with Program
Manager Dr. Melissa Neuburger.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola - no report.

Trustee Lefkovitz enjoyed attending the Open House at Leo A. Palmiter
Jr./Sr. High School on April 17 and getting to know more about the
program. She hopes that next year the Palmiter meeting takes place on
location, as scheduled.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano looks forward to attending the Youth Rally at
the California Museum on April 19.

Trustee Davis - no report.

Trustee Brown made a suggestion, based on his positive childhood
experience of having access to the local library, to prioritize ensuring that
students have access to libraries.

Trustee Fong - no report.

B. Board President



04.18.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                  6
President Keefer read Heroic, a poem written by an El Centro Student.

C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution

A. April/May Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. May 2, 2023 and May 16, 2023

14. Adjournment

A. Motion to Adjourn Meeting by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown,
Ahola

The meeting adjourned at 8:04 p.m.




04.18.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                            7
