                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
     Todd Harms
      Fire Chief
                                           BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING

                                         Thursday, December 9, 2021 – 6:00 PM
                                               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Matt Kelly
Board President                                     10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 7                                         Board Room – Second Floor
Cinthia Saylors                                         Mather, California
Board Vice President                                            &
Division 1
                                                       Remotely Via Zoom
D’Elman Clark                                         Phone: (669) 900-6833
Board Secretary
Division 6                                         Webinar ID: 873 4229 6460#
Grant Goold
                                                     Passcode: 054 264 189#
Board Member
Division 2                 The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
                               and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.
Randy Orzalli
Board Member
Division 3             The Governor has declared a State of Emergency to exist in California as a result of
                       the threat of COVID-19 (aka the “Coronavirus”). The Governor issued Executive
Ted Wood               Order N-25-20 and N-29-20, which directs Californians to follow public health
Board Member
Division 4             directives including canceling large gatherings. The Executive Order also allows local
                       legislative bodies to hold meetings via conference calls while still satisfying state
Jennifer Sheetz        transparency requirements.
Board Member
Division 5
                       On June 11, 2021, the Governor issued Executive Order N-07-21, which formally
Gay Jones              rescinded the Stay-at-Home Order (Executive Order N-33-20, issued on March 19,
Board Member
Division 8             2020), as well as set the framework for a gradual, risk-based reopening of the
                       economy. Given the new framework and to facilitate this process, the meeting of the
Walt White             Board will be available in person and via Zoom at the location and phone number
Board Member           listed above. The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of
Division 9
                       Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. If you prefer viewing the meeting via the
                       Zoom Application, please contact Interim Board Clerk Dehoney via email at the
                       address listed below.

                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
                       reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance
                       of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable accommodations:

                                                               Michelle Dehoney
                                                              Interim Board Clerk
                                                                 (916) 859-4305
                                                       dehoney.michelle@metrofire.ca.gov

                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.
                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING AGENDA                                                            THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2021


CALL TO ORDER

ROLL CALL

PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT
The Open Session Meeting is videotaped for cablecast on Metro Cable 14. Replay on Monday,
December 13th at 6:00 pm and Wednesday, December 15th at 6:00 pm on Channel 14; Webcast
at metro14live.saccounty.net.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN DISTRICT
JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and encourages public
interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public members desiring to address the
Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding officer and identify themselves for the record.
The presiding officer may in the interest of time and good order limit the number of public member
presentations. Speakers’ comments will be limited to three minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members of the Public
requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be present or have a
representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of issues to
committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval, declaration of surplus
equipment, and other consent matters. Consent Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board
member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                 Page No.
1.   Action Summary Minutes                                                      7
     Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board
     meeting of November 9, 2021.

2.      2022 Schedule of Regular and Special Board Meetings                                                          12
        Recommendation: Approve the 2022 schedule of regular and special board
        meetings and cancel meetings that fall on or near holidays.

3.      Quarterly Investment Report from September 2021                                                              14
        Recommendation: Receive and file the investment report for the 1st quarter
        of Fiscal Year 2021-22.


PRESENTATION ITEMS
1.   Life Saving Commendation – Civilian Award (Chief Mitchell)                                                        *
           Rubin Romanov
     Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING AGENDA                                                        THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2021


2.    Life Saving Commendation – Civilian Award (Chief Mitchell)                                                  *
            Lisa Geigle, Ramone Trejo, Latrese Avery
      Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.

3.    5 Years of Service to Director Sheetz (Chief Mitchell)                                                      *
      Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.

4.    Del Paso Manor Water District Grand Jury Report (Chief Barsdale)                                            *
      Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.


ACTION ITEMS
1.   Election of Board Officers (Interim Board Clerk Dehoney)                                                 16
     Recommendation: Nominate and elect members of the Board to serve as:
     a) President, b) Vice President, and c) Secretary for one (1) year terms
     to commence January 1, 2022.

2.    Ratification of Resolution to Extend Teleconference of Board                       18
      Meetings (Government Code 54953(e) (3)). (President Kelly)
      Recommendation: Consider adopting a Resolution which would extend the
      ability to teleconference without compliance with Government Code paragraph (3) of
      subdivision (b) of section 54953 from December 9, 2021-January 9, 2022 or until
      further re-ratified.

3.    Purchase Approval – Six North Star Ambulances                                                           20
      (Fleet Manager Shea Pursell)
      Recommendation: Approve the purchase of six North Star Ambulances from
      Braun Northwest in the amount of $1,524,904.18.

4.    Notice of Award – RFP 21-08 Helicopter Maintenance Services                     30
      (Chief Greene)
      Recommendation: Approve the contract award to DynCorp International LLC and
      authorize the Fire Chief to execute the agreement in accordance with RFP 21-08.

5.    Notice of Award – RFB 21-09 Mechanical Rooftop Equipment                                                32
      Replacement (Logistics Manager Mark Jones)
      Recommendation: Approve the contract award to Air Systems Service and
      Construction in the amount of $529,290.00.

6.    Industrial Disability Retirement – Engineer Troy Nogosek                                               **
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a
      Resolution finding Engineer Troy Nogosek has suffered job related injuries
      and is eligible for an Industrial Disability Retirement.

7.    Industrial Disability Retirement – Firefighter John Carr                                               **
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a
      Resolution finding Firefighter John Carr has suffered job related injuries
      and is eligible for an Industrial Disability Retirement.
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING AGENDA                                                        THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2021


CLOSED SESSION
1.   Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) –One (1) matter                                   **
     of Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
           Kevin Summers and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
           Claim # SMDS – 550441 – Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
           Colin Conner of Lenahan, Lee, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

2.    Conference with Labor Negotiator                                                                            *
      Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6
      A. District Negotiator:    Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      B. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      C. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      D. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

      E. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

3.    CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL – ANTICIPATED LITIGATION –                                                   **
      Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
      Section 54956.9 (b): Four cases
      A. Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
          Marlene Jordan v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          Deputy Chief Casentini

      B. Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
         David Engineering Construction Inc. v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Deputy Chief Casentini

      C. Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
         Ernest LaPorte (April 9, 2021) v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Deputy Chief Casentini

      D. Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
         Ernest LaPorte (September 10, 2021) v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Deputy Chief Casentini
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING AGENDA                                                         THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2021


4.   Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) – two (2) matters                                    **
     of Industrial Disability Retirement.
     A.     John G. Carr and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
            Claim # SMDO – 549503 – Industrial Disability Retirement
            Deputy Chief Gregory Casentini

     B.      Troy J. Nogosek and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
             Claim # SMDI – 8957A2 – Industrial Disability Retirement
             Deputy Chief Gregory Casentini

5.   Public Employee Performance Evaluation: Fire Chief                                                             *
     Pursuant to Government Code Sections 54957(b)(1) and 54954.5(e)

REPORT OUT FROM CLOSED SESSION

REPORTS
1.   PRESIDENT’S REPORT—(President Kelly)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT—(Acting Fire Chief Mitchell)
           OPERATIONS’ REPORT – (DC Mitchell)

3.   SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
     10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.
     A.      Executive Committee – (President Kelly)
             Next Meeting: TBD

     B.      Communications Center JPA – (DC Mitchell)
             Next Meeting: December 14, 2021 at 9:00 AM

     C.      California Fire & Rescue Training JPA – (DC Mitchell)
             Report Out:      November 18, 2021 at 1:00 PM
             Next Meeting: December 14, 2021 at TBD
             Location:        3121 Gold Canal Drive
                              Mather, CA 95670

     D.      Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Orzalli)
             Next Meeting: January 27, 2021 at 5:30 PM

     E.      Policy Committee – (Director Goold)
             Next Meeting: TBD

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING AGENDA                                                               THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2021


Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District,
10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •     Next Board Meeting – January 13, 2022 at 6:00 PM

The following action and presentation items are scheduled for the next board meeting agenda.
Board members are requested to identify additional action or presentation items they desire to
be scheduled on the agenda.

ANTICIPATED AGENDA ITEMS:                       TBD

Posted on December 6, 2021

______________________________________
Michelle Dehoney, Interim Clerk of the Board
* No written report
**       Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
