       l           I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   \i+;J~               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                              Thursday, May 8, 2025 – 6:00 PM
Ted Wood                                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                   10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4
                                                Board Room – Second Floor
John Costa                                            Mather, California
Board Vice President
Division 9
                                                              &
                                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                   Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                     Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                    Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member            https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFlLQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Division 1

Grant Goold
Board Member           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D’Elman Clark
Board Member
                       Application, please click on the link above.
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member           reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member           accommodations:
Division 8
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                          THURSDAY, MAY 8, 2025


 CALL TO ORDER

 ROLL CALL

 PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro14live.saccounty.gov. Today’s meeting replays at 1:30 p.m. on Saturday,
May 10, 2025, and again at 6:00 p.m. on Monday, May 12, 2025, on Metro Cable
Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand at
youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers’ comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                     Page No.


1.     Adopt Resolution – Surplus Real Property – 9116 Vancouver Drive           6
       Recommendation: Adopt Resolution declaring the vacant 0.18-acre Site as
       surplus and authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to begin the disposition
       process.

2.     Adopt Resolution – Surplus Vehicle and Equipment Designation                 8
       Recommendation: Adopt Resolution designating the vehicles and equipment listed
       as surplus.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, MAY 8, 2025


3.   Adopt Resolution – Contract Award Recommendation – Janitorial Cleaning 12
     and Maintenance Services
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution awarding a contract to City Wide Property
     Service, Inc., and authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to negotiate, execute, and
     administer an agreement materially similar to the attachment agreement.

4.   Adopt Resolution – Reimbursement from Proceeds of Measure O Bonds               39
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution reimbursing the District for funds that have been
     or may be expended prior to issuing tax-exempt debt.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:
1.   CRRD – Electrified Security Fencing Follow-up Presentation                                                         43
     (Amy Nygren, Fire Marshal)
     Recommendation: Receive the presentation.

2.   Measure O – General Obligation Bond Structuring Options                                                            53
     (Dave O’Toole, Chief Financial Officer)
     (Bobby Cheung, Managing Director, KNN Public Finance)
     Recommendation: Receive the presentation.

3.   Behavioral Health Response Update                                                                                  63
     (Deputy Chief Mitchell and Staff)
     Recommendation: Receive the presentation.

ACTION ITEMS:
1.   Nomination of Special Districts Representative for the Sacramento County                                           76
     Treasury Oversight Committee
     (Marni Rittburg, Clerk of the Board)
     Recommendation: Consider nominating one candidate for the special districts
     representative for the Sacramento County Treasury Oversight Committee.

REPORTS:

1.   PRESIDENT’S REPORT — (President Wood)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT — (Chief House)

           OPERATIONS REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
           ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT – (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)
           SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT – (Deputy Chief Wagaman)
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                            THURSDAY, MAY 8, 2025


3.       SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
         522 Vice President)

4.       COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
         All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
         Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

         A.      Executive Committee – (President Wood)
                 Next Meeting: TBD

         B.      Communications Center JPA – (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)
                 Next Meeting: May 13, 2025 at 9:00 AM
                 SRFECC Annex – 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite B, Sacramento

         C.      Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Jones)
                 Next Meeting: May 22, 2025, at 5:30 PM

         D.      Policy Committee – (Director Costa)
                 Next Meeting: June 12, 2025, at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matter(s):

1.       Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) –one (1) matter
         of Workers' Compensation Settlement Authority

              Christopher Rogers and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              Claim #4A2305HDK5R0001 and Claim # 4A23097927K0001
              Workers’ Compensation Settlement Authority
              Colin Connor, Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP or Metro Fire EE

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •   Regular Board Meeting – May 22, 2025, at 6:00 PM
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                               THURSDAY, MAY 8, 2025


Posted on May 5, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.


_____________________________________
Marni Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
*    Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility.
