CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM PLAN
        FISCAL YEAR 2022/23




CALIFORNIA




             Sacramento Metropolitan
                         Fire District
                         www.metrofire.ca.gov
      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
       Capital Improvement Program Plan

               For the Fiscal Year 2022/23
With Projections for Fiscal Years 2023/24 through 2026/27




             Presented to the Board of Directors by
  Todd Harms, Fire Chief and Dave O’Toole, Chief Financial Officer
                           June 9, 2022
                                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
   Transmittal Letter ………………………………………...…..……………………………………………………………….            1
   Directory of Officials …………………………………………………..…………………………………………………………           4
   Organizational Chart …………………………………………...………………………………………………………………             5
   District Profile …………………………………………...………………………………………………………………                 6
   District Values and Mission Statement …………………………………………...……………………………………      7

CIP OVERVIEW AND SUMMARY
   Purpose of the CIP …………………………………………...………………………………………………………………               8
   Plan Development …………………………………………...………………………………………………………………                 9
   Prioritization ………………...……………………………...………………………………………………………………               10
   Process …………………………………………...……………………………………………………………………………..                   11
   5-Year CIP Plan Summary …………………………………………...………………………………………………………… 13
   FY 2022/23 Plan Summary …………………………………………...………………………………………………………             14

FINANCING PLAN
   Capital Budget Overview …………………….………………………………………………………………………………… 16
   Capital Project Revenue Assumptions…………………….……………………………………………………………          17
   Expense Summary by Project Type/Fund …………………………………...………………………………………… 19
   Project Summary by Fund / Revenue Source …………………………………...…………………………………       19
   Debt Service Schedule ………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………             20
   Capital Project Details by Priority and Type …………………….……………………………………………………   20

CAPITAL PROJECT DETAILS BY PRIORITY AND TYPE
   Priority 1 Projects …...…………………..………………………………………………………………………………………           21
   Project Types …...…………………..………………………………………………………………………………………….               22

APPENDICES
   Budgeting/Basis of Accounting ……………………………………………………………………………………………            26
   Budget Calendar ………………………………………………………………………………………………………….                    27
   Guide to Funds ………………………………………………………………………………………………………….                     28
   Glossary and Acronyms …………………………………………………………………………………………………………               29
   Resolutions ………………………………………………………………………….……………………………………….                    32
   Location of Funded Projects ………………….………………………………………………………………………………           34
   CIP Index ………………….……………………………………………………………………………………………….                      35
   Project Initiation Forms ………………….……………………………………………………………………………………            36
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite #200, Mather, CA 95655 ꞏ (916) 859-4300 ꞏ Fax (916) 859-3700



Todd Harms
 Fire Chief




 June 9, 2022


 To the Board of Directors of the
 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

 FROM: Todd Harms, Fire Chief

 RE:      Five‐Year Capital Improvement Program Plan, Fiscal Years 2022/23 through FY 2026/27

 It is with great pleasure that I submit the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (District) Capital
 Improvement Program (CIP) Plan and budget for fiscal year (FY) 2022/2023 with projections through FY
 2026/27 to the Board of Directors (Board) of the District. The purpose of the CIP is to facilitate capital
 planning and coordinate financing and scheduling of major capital projects undertaken by the District.

 All capital projects presented in this CIP Plan have been carefully developed and evaluated in accordance
 with the District’s CIP Policy. The CIP Plan was prepared in accordance with standards established by the
 California Society of Municipal Finance Officers and follows generally accepted accounting principles,
 where applicable. The costs presented are tied to, and reflected in, the FY 2022/23 Preliminary Budget.
 The cost of the proposed capital improvement program for FY 2022/23 totals $9.1 million.

 The focus of the 2022/23 CIP is meeting the most critical District needs, with special emphasis on those
 projects that contribute to the District’s ability to deliver emergency services within the timeframes
 specified in the District’s standard of coverage metric, including the addition of a fire station at Vineyard
 Springs and replacing Type 1 engines and ambulances. Approximately 81 percent of the FY 2022/23
 spending will come from the Capital Facilities Fund, with 13 percent provided by the General Fund, and
 the balance from the Development Impact Fee Fund.

 The District’s major revenue sources for CIP Plan projects are property taxes (approximately 68 percent
 of the annual budget), followed by emergency medical transport service fees (18 percent), with the
 balance comprised of other fees and fund transfers (14 percent). The forecasted costs beyond FY 2022/23
 are estimates only and largely dependent on the local economy and property tax revenues.

 The District continues to face a significant backlog of deferred maintenance and capital projects, totaling
 more than $200 million. As explained in this CIP Plan, several of these capital and maintenance projects
 are planned over the next five years, with only $9.1 million funded in fiscal year 2022/23. The District
 anticipates securing long‐term financing to fund planned, future projects, and examining new revenue
 sources to fund fire station construction.




                                 Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                                      TRANSMITTAL LETTER

CAPITAL PROJECT SUMMARY
The chart and table below summarizes major capital projects planned for the upcoming fiscal year.




                                                  $9.1M




Project Type            Project Title                                   Plan Type              FY22/23
Land Acquisition        Grant Line 220 Land                             Growth               $     40,000
New Construction        Vineyard Springs Station                        Growth                    550,000
Facilities Repair       4381 Anatolia (Old Station 68) Refurbishment    Project Request           100,000
Apparatus &             Type I Replacement Schedule                     Replacement             4,310,000
Equipment               Ambulance Replacement Schedule                  Replacement             2,605,500
                        Copter 3 Conversion                             Project Request           750,000
                        Boardroom Equipment                             Replacement                79,494
Personal Protective     Turnouts Replacement Schedule                   Replacement               340,000
Equipment               Recruit Turnouts                                Growth                    215,000
                        Structural Helmets                              Replacement                80,000
Station Remodels        Restroom Access - Phase 2                       Compliance                  5,000
Miscellaneous           Dorm Lockers and Privacy Walls                  FCA                        70,000
Totals                                                                                       $  9,144,994


DESCRIPTION OF REPORT SECTIONS
The Introduction section of this CIP provides the District’s organizational profile including:
    • Directory of Officials
    • Districtwide Organizational Chart
    • District Profile
    • District Values and Mission Statement




  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                     2
                                CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                                      TRANSMITTAL LETTER
The CIP Overview and Summary section provides the purpose and background of the CIP, explains the CIP
planning and development process, summarizes the five-year capital needs, and describes first year
capital projects.

The Financing Plan section provides the capital budget overview and revenue assumptions, displays
summaries by project type and revenue source, debt service schedule, and operating and maintenance
costs by spending category.

The Capital Project Details by Priority and Type section provides the high priority project details, and
shows projects by type (Land Acquisitions, New Construction, Station Remodels/Expansions, Facilities
Replacement/Repair, Apparatus and Equipment Replacement/Repair, Personal Protective Equipment
(PPE) Replacement/Repair, and Special Projects).

Finally, the Appendices include information on the District’s budgeting methodology, a budget calendar,
guide to funds, glossary, board resolutions, and sources and uses of funds. It also contains additional
details regarding the District’s budgeting process and basis of accounting for its capital projects, a guide
to funds, glossary of terms and acronyms, resolutions to enact the CIP, and a project reference list.

CONCLUSION
While the District begins to recover financially from the COVID-19 pandemic, new challenges to long-term
capital planning are coming to light. The District faces a significant amount of deferred maintenance and
unfunded capital projects, including an anticipated 14 stations in new development areas and
approximately 13 stations in infill areas where, if population and service call trends continue, the District
will not be able to meet service needs without additional stations and support.

The capital projects contained in this plan seek to meet the strategic goal set by the Board of Directors in
2020 to develop a comprehensive five-year Capital Improvement Plan for the acquisition and
maintenance of real property, vehicles, and apparatus, and professional equipment. The CIP proposed for
fiscal years 2022/23 through 2026/27 is the result of a team effort of both District staff and the Board of
Directors. The projections included in the CIP are intended to fulfill community needs and improve safety
and quality of life for all citizens in the District.

I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Board of Directors for their leadership and direction in
building this CIP, as well as my team, in particular Erin Castleberry, Jeff Frye, Ron Empedrad, Marie Jones,
Tara Maeller, and Dave O’Toole for their persistence and dedication, without which this project would not
have come together.

Respectfully submitted,




Todd Harms
Fire Chief


  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                    3
           As of June 30, 2022
                                                           Board of Directors

                                 PRESIDENT




                                 Cinthia Saylors       Grant B. Goold      Randy Orzalli           Ted Wood          Jennifer Sheetz
                                    Division 1           Division 2         Division 3             Division 4           Division 5

                                        VICE-PRESIDENT                                                     SECRETARY




                                           D’Elman Clark          Matt Kelly          Gay Jones            Walt White
                                             Division 6           Division 7          Division 8           Division 9



                                                              Executive Staff
                                          FIRE CHIEF
                                                                  DEPUTY CHIEF             DEPUTY CHIEF               DEPUTY CHIEF
                                                                 ADMINISTRATION             OPERATIONS            SUPPORT SERVICES
                                                                    Ty Bailey              Adam Mitchell             Tyler Wagaman

                                                                           CHIEF FINANCIAL              CHIEF DEVELOPMENT
                                                                               OFFICER                        OFFICER
                                                                            Dave O’Toole                      Jeff Frye
                                         Todd Harms



                                                            Assistant Chiefs
                                           A SHIFT                          B SHIFT                                C SHIFT
                                        Joseph Fiorica                    Chris Greene                          Charles Jenkins

                                             EMS                         FIRE MARSHAL                             TRAINING
                                         Jon Rudnicki                      Barbara Law                          Michael Lozano




Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                                             4
Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District   5
                             CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                                    DISTRICT PROFILE
The District was established on December 1, 2000 through the merger
of the American River and Sacramento County Fire Protection Districts,
which brought together 16 predecessor fire agencies. Metro Fire is
governed by a nine-member Board of Directors duly elected by citizens
from the nine geographical divisions in Metro Fire’s area of
responsibility.


Today, the District is the largest fire agency in the County of Sacramento and one of the largest in the
State. The combined District provides fire suppression and emergency medical services along with various
other public safety and hazard mitigation community services to its residents in approximately 359 square
miles. The District’s service area includes two cities, most of the unincorporated area of Sacramento
County, and a portion of Placer County. Within the boundaries of Metro Fire are wildland areas, single
and multi-family residential units, commercial and light industrial occupancies, hotels, regional hospitals,
institutional buildings, local airfields, numerous convalescent and assisted living facilities, equestrian
                                                                       areas, and open space areas
                                                                         including several major hiking
                                                                           trails.      Numerous main
                                                                           interstate     highways       also
                                                                           traverse       Metro        Fire’s
                                                                           jurisdiction, along with the
                                                                           American River, a major
                                                                           recreation      resource       for
                                                                           residents and visitors alike.

                                                                           The District provides all-hazard
                                                                           emergency services to the cities
                                                                           of Citrus Heights and Rancho
                                                                           Cordova,      most      of   the
                                                                           unincorporated        areas   of
                                                                           Sacramento County, and a
                                                                           portion of Placer County. A
                                                                           total of 719,641 residents
                                                                           within its jurisdiction of which
                                                                           55% is white, 19% is Hispanic,
                                                                           13% is Asian, 8% is black, and
                                                                           5% is other/mixed.

It has 41 stations strategically located across its service area in order to effectively respond to any
emergency within its goal of 4-minute travel time.




  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                    6
                          CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                      DISTRICT VALUES AND MISSION STATEMENT
Metro Fire Mission Statement: To provide professional and compassionate protection, education and
service to our community.

The Metro Fire mission statement is intended to sharpen the department’s focus on members, service
delivery, infrastructure or asset management, budget sustainability, forecasting for the future,
partnerships and optics management, community engagement, and communication.

Metro Fire Core Values: Integrity · Professionalism · Teamwork · Devotion to Duty

The District’s four values define expectations for the attitude and behaviors of every member of Metro
Fire. They apply without exception, and all members are asked to embrace them in the District’s collective
pursuit of excellence.

    •   Integrity. With honesty as the foundation, the District will always do what is right.

    •   Professionalism. A personal commitment to exceed professional expectations in attitude, ability
        and appearance.

    •   Teamwork. A partnership of coordinated effort based on trust, empowerment, support and
        communication.

    •   Devotion to Duty. Recognizing and placing the needs of others before the District.




  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                 7
                              CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                                CIP OVERVIEW AND SUMMARY

                                            PURPOSE OF THE CIP
The purpose of the District’s Capital Improvement Program (CIP) is to organize, facilitate, and memorialize
capital needs and goals in order to efficiently and transparently develop and support the physical
infrastructure of the District. The CIP incorporates and is consistent with District master plans, Board of
Directors’ goals, and other long-range plans of the District, and serves as a planning tool that coordinates
the financing and scheduling of capital projects. It is the policy of the District to prepare a CIP that outlines
the capital needs of the District that:

    •   Are responsive to the changing needs of the District
    •   Demonstrate excellence in quality and value
    •   Enable members to carry out their duties in an efficient and customer-focused manner
    •   Provide a healthy, safe, secure, productive, and equitable work environment in order to promote
        efficient service delivery

The District accomplishes this purpose through the development of an annual CIP Plan (Plan), which
identifies and plans for the funding of capital projects in order to ensure timely acquisition and
replacement of needed facilities, improvements, apparatus, and equipment. Since many capital projects
take more than one fiscal year to complete, developing a five‐year plan allows the District and Board to
improve fiscal forecasting and anticipate upcoming infrastructure needs and improvements. The Plan is
updated annually and includes the adoption of the five-year CIP Plan, as well as the annual CIP Budget,
which is adopted as part of the District’s annual Preliminary Budget.

For purposes of this CIP, and in accordance with the District’s Capital Improvement Program Policy, a
capital project is defined as:

        Any expenditure for facilities, improvements, apparatus, or equipment with a cost greater than
        $50,000 and an expected useful life of at least one year. These projects include apparatus and
        equipment acquisition and replacement; improvements to District facilities; and the construction
        or rehabilitation of District properties and facilities including feasibility studies, land acquisition,
        architecture and engineering, and other associated planning costs.

The five-year CIP Plan and the annual CIP Budget are distinct documents that are prepared in concert and
updated annually to reflect fiscal and policy changes. The two documents are distinguished by the
characteristics outlined below.

FIVE-YEAR CIP PLAN
    •   Describes the long-term financial need for capital projects, including funding sources
    •   Establishes project priorities and serves as a planning document or blueprint for the District’s
        investment in capital infrastructure and equipment
    •   Provides a breakdown of anticipated project costs and phasing
    •   Does not appropriate money – the annual budget process will include the actual funding authority
        for capital projects via the CIP Budget.

ANNUAL CIP BUDGET
    •   Identifies funds to be appropriated in the upcoming fiscal year to implement the first year of the
        five-year CIP Plan

  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                        8
                             CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                               CIP OVERVIEW AND SUMMARY
    •   Identifies which capital projects have been recommended for funding in the upcoming fiscal year
    •   Funding may be appropriated for a phase or phases of a major, multi-year project
    •   May include a recommendation to incur new indebtedness
    •   Is adopted as part of the District’s Preliminary Budget


                                           PLAN DEVELOPMENT
The CIP is used as a tool to help ensure the District’s long and short-term capital investments are made in
the context of careful consideration of the District’s needs, as well as the resources available to fund
projects. The CIP is a compilation of projects intended to implement various long-range plans as outlined
below.

STANDARDS OF COVER
The Standards of Cover is a planning document which establishes a written procedure to determine the
distribution and concentration of fixed and mobile resources. The process includes establishing service
level objectives, risk assessments, distribution, and concentration measures. The data is collected for
deployment analyses and performance is measured. The results of deployment analyses are used to assist
Metro Fire in its mid to long term planning efforts to provide levels of service that meet the all-risk defense
standards it deems necessary to reduce the risks to human life and property damage. As a result, the
Standards of Cover is used to anticipate the expansion or relocation of fire stations to accommodate the
apparatus and crew needed to deliver service.

GROWTH PLAN
The Growth Plan summarizes the expected population growth within Metro Fire’s service area over a 40
year horizon. The Growth Plan is similar to the Standards of Cover in process except service plans are
developed from planning information, proposed traffic circulation data, and population models. The
information is used to create deployment models that, along with the Standards of Cover, determine the
need and location for new fire stations to accommodate service delivery needs into the future.

FACILITY CONDITION ASSESSMENT
In 2018, Metro Fire retained a third-party consultant to conduct a District-wide Facility Conditions
Assessment (FCA) that evaluated existing conditions at 38 fire stations and 4 support facilities. FCAs are
used to locate and evaluate materials and building system defects that might significantly affect the value
of the property, and to identify any significant deferred maintenance issues and existing deficiencies
which affect the ongoing operations of the facilities.

In every FCA the recommended replacement, repair, or other corrective action is assigned a Plan Type.
The Plan Type is used to categorize and prioritize projects which have the greatest significance. The Plan
Types are listed in order of importance:
    •   Safety – An observed or reported unsafe condition that, if left unaddressed, could result in injury;
        a system or component that presents a potential liability risk.
    •   Performance/Integrity – Component or system has failed, is almost failing, performs unreliably,
        does not perform as intended, and/or poses a risk to overall system stability.
    •   Accessibility – Does not meet ADA, UFAS, and/or other accessibility requirements.
    •   Environmental – Improvements to air or water quality, including removal of hazardous materials
        from the building or site.

  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                      9
                             CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                               CIP OVERVIEW AND SUMMARY
    •   Modernization/Adaptation – Conditions, systems, or spaces that need to be upgraded in
        appearance or function to meet current standards, facility usage, or Metro Fire’s current or future
        operational needs.
    •   Lifecycle/Renewal – Any component or system in which future repair or replacement is
        anticipated beyond the next several years and/or is of minimal substantial early-term
        consequence.

APPARATUS AND EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT SCHEDULE
The Apparatus and Equipment Replacement
Schedule is a mid-term planning document which
uses NFPA replacement standards, industry
guidelines, and years of experience in operating and
maintaining vehicles and equipment. The goal of the
Replacement Schedule is to use data such as
estimated age, useful life, remaining useful life,
replacement cost, downtime, availability of
replacement parts, and annual maintenance cost to
anticipate the most economically beneficial time to
replace apparatus and equipment.

Not all of Metro Fire’s equipment meets the criteria of a capital purchase. However, when these items are
purchased in bulk or are not routine in nature, the acquisition of the equipment or supplies may require
a significant capital outlay. As such, these capital expenditures should be planned, and are therefore
considered capital projects for the purpose of inclusion in the CIP.


                                              PRIORITIZATION
The prioritization of capital projects is absolutely necessary given the limited availability of financial and
human resources. Criteria for prioritizing and ranking projects are established to help provide structure
and objectivity to the evaluation of projects. In determining the priority of a proposed project, key
management team members evaluate projects for urgency, funding availability, feasibility, alignment with
the strategic plan, statutory and regulatory considerations, and impact on service delivery. Other
considerations include impact on operating costs, secondary financial impacts, management and
oversight implications, and impact on constituents and stakeholders.

Projects are evaluated both by their priority score and their ranking. Priority score is the result of a scoring
rubric that determines whether a project is High Priority (Priority 1), Medium Priority (Priority 2), or Low
Priority (Priority 3). Project rank describes a project’s priority in relation to all other project requests
submitted for the year. The methodology for both priority and rank are described below.

CIP PRIORITY METHODOLOGY
Priority is assigned based on the following factors: to what degree the project is tied to the District’s
strategic planning documents, to what degree the project addresses mandates and/or reduces operating
expenses, and to what degree the project impacts service delivery.




  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                      10
                             CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                               CIP OVERVIEW AND SUMMARY
The exact scoring methodology is as follows:
    • Strategic Alignment – Is the project aligned with one of Metro Fire’s strategic plans (Standards of
       Cover, FCA, Growth Plan, A/E Replacement Schedule)?
            o 5 points – Project is aligned with multiple strategic plans.
            o 3 points – Project is aligned with one strategic plan.
            o 1 point – Project is not aligned with a strategic plan.

    •   Priority Type – Is the project required to meet legal, compliance, or regulatory mandates? Will the
        project reduce operating expenses?
            o 5 points – Project will address mandates and reduce operating expenses.
            o 3 points – Project will address mandates or reduce operating expenses.
            o 1 point – Project will not address mandates or reduce operating expenses.

    •   Service Delivery – Will the project directly improve service delivery?
            o 5 points – Project directly improves service delivery.
            o 3 points – Project indirectly improves service delivery.
            o 1 point – Project does not directly or indirectly improve service delivery.

Projects are given a High Priority “1” status with a score of 13 or more. Projects are given a Medium
Priority “2” status with a score between 9 and 13. Projects are given a Low Priority “3” status with a score
of less than 9.

CIP RANK METHODOLOGY
A project’s rank as it relates to other project requests is determined by evaluating a variety of factors
including designated priority, project readiness, whether or not the District has the capacity to complete
all or a portion of the project within the upcoming fiscal year, and impact to operations. Other
considerations may include impact on operating costs, secondary financial impacts, management and
oversight implications, and impact to constituents and stakeholders.


                                                 PROCESS
PROJECT SUBMISSION
A capital project may be submitted for consideration by any member of Metro Fire through the
completion of the Capital Project Initiation Form (CPIF). CPIFs document the project description, timeline,
procurement type, funding amount, funding source, operational impact, project justification, relevant ties
to other projects, and other supporting information. A complete CPIF includes:
    • Supporting documentation demonstrating alignment with one or more of Metro Fire’s strategic
        plans.
    • Supporting fiscal documentation including but not limited to feasibility studies, cost estimates,
        and or vendor quotes consistent with Metro Fire’s procurement procedures.
    • Signature of the applicable division manager and the CIP Administrator.

FILLING OUT THE CPIF
The CPIF is designed to provide basic project information to decision makers throughout the process. In
this section, guidance is provided in how to complete the form. This guidance is not exhaustive, but
intended to provide clarity where the applicant may have questions:


  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                  11
                             CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                               CIP OVERVIEW AND SUMMARY
    •   Project # - The project number will be assigned by the CIP Administrator once the project
        submittal is deemed complete. The CIP Administrator will add the project to the inventory and
        use the Project # for tracking purposes.
    •   Priority – To determine the priority of the project, the project proponent should consider the
        three criteria (Strategic Alignment, Plan Type, and Service Delivery) discussed in the Prioritization
        section of this document and score the project accordingly. Priority “1” projects are those with a
        score of 13 points or more; Priority “2” projects are those with a score between 9 and 13 points;
        and Priority “3” projects are those with a score less than 9 points.
    •   Repeat Request – If the project is denied or unfunded, the project applicant may resubmit the
        project for consideration in subsequent fiscal years by selecting this check box.
    •   Project Description – A brief narrative about the project.
    •   Master Plan – This is the nexus between the project and strategic alignment. Select all that apply.
    •   Capital Plan – A project may use funding from multiple sources. Input the anticipated required
        dollars from each fund (in thousands).
    •   Procurement Process and Timeline – A brief description of the anticipated procurement
        procedures and timeline for the project.
    •   Project Allocation – The requested funding amount is allocated to the appropriate expense
        category and fiscal year(s) and any previously approved allocations for the project are also noted.
    •   Project Consideration Checklist – Generally describes operational impact and any relationships to
        other capital projects.

PROJECT VERIFICATION
Completed CPIFs are routed to the division manager who will review the submittal to make sure the
proposed project is consistent with divisional priorities and goals. If approved, the division manager will
submit the project to the CIP Administrator for review. The CIP Administrator will review the PIF for
completeness and may request additional information as necessary for evaluation of the project.

PROJECT EVALUATION AND RANKING
Capital project requests are evaluated on an annual basis in accordance with the District’s CIP Policy.
Projects are first reviewed by the CIP Committee, made up of representatives from the Finance, Planning
and Development, and Purchasing divisions. The committee reviews each request and ranks it using the
ranking methodology previously described.

EXECUTIVE REVIEW AND FUNDING RECOMMENDATION
The ranked CIP Summary is then reviewed by the Fire Chief, Deputy Chiefs, and Chief Financial Officer in
conjunction with the preliminary budget review process. The Fire Chief may recommend to fund, partially
fund, or not fund any given project based on the established criteria and considerations.

PLAN ADOPTION
Based on the recommendations of the Fire Chief, the CIP, including both the five-year CIP Plan and the
one-year CIP Budget, is presented to the Board for adoption on or before June 30 and in concurrence with
the preliminary budget adoption process. Once the CIP Budget is approved, budgeted funds are restricted
for their intended use.




  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                   12
                                     CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                                       CIP OVERVIEW AND SUMMARY

                                                5-YEAR CIP PLAN SUMMARY
There are 55 capital projects identified in the five-year CIP Plan totaling $201,938,974, including 24 Priority
1 projects, 15 Priority 2 projects, and 16 Priority 3 projects. The five-year Summary is shown below and
represents the anticipated needs through fiscal year 2026/2027.

  Project #   Project Title                      FY22/23         FY23/24          FY24/25          FY25/26     FY26/27           Total
   23-01      Grant Line 220 Land              $    40,000                    $    2,400,000                               $    2,440,000
              Acquisition
   23-02      Air Operations Relocation             25,000                                                                        25,000
              Feasibility
   23-03      Logistics Relocation Feasibility      25,000                                                                        25,000

   23-04      Vineyard Springs Station            550,000    $    4,450,000       6,000,000                                    11,000,000
   23-05      Station 42 Relocation                50,000           750,000       3,750,000    $   7,250,000                   11,800,000
   23-06      Zinfandel Training Center -      12,000,000        30,600,000       6,400,000                                    49,000,000
              Phase III
   23-07      Station 112 Expansion                50,000          750,000        7,750,000        7,250,000                   15,800,000
   23-08      Apparatus Covered Parking @         300,000                                                                         300,000
              Fleet Facility
   23-09      Covered Parking & Striping @         60,000                                                                         60,000
              Fleet Facility
   23-10      Backup Generator @ Fleet            180,000                                                                        180,000
              Facility
   23-11      Draft Commander Carport @            60,000                                                                         60,000
              Fleet Facility
   23-12      Foam Truck Carport @ Station         60,000                                                                         60,000
              62
   23-13      Boat Carport @ Station 65            60,000                                                                         60,000
   23-14      Future Fire Station 68 Patio        120,000                                                                        120,000
              Coverings
   23-15      Restroom Access - Phase 2             5,000                                                                           5,000
   23-16      Station 21 Expansion                 50,000          750,000        4,125,000           75,000                    5,000,000
   23-17      Station 53 Expansion                150,000                                                                         150,000
   23-18      Deferred Facilities               1,920,300                                                                       1,920,300
              Maintenance
   23-19      Deferred Facilities               2,370,300                                                                       2,370,300
              Maintenance - Lifecycle
              Replacements
   23-20      Facilities Maintenance -          1,905,275         4,919,993       1,144,990        2,240,859   3,118,831       13,329,948
              Lifecycle Replacements
   23-21      Flooring Replacement                 65,000                                                                         65,000
   23-22      Kitchen Remodels                    175,000                                                                        175,000
   23-23      Shower Remodels                      75,000                                                                         75,000
   23-24      Station 108 Sidewalk & Apron        100,000                                                                        100,000
   23-25      4381 Anatolia (Old Station 68)      100,000                                                                        100,000
              Refurbishment
   23-26      Type I Replacement Schedule       4,310,000         2,762,100       4,051,080                                    11,123,180
   23-27      Type III Replacement Schedule     1,356,000           469,700         516,670                                     2,342,370
   23-28      Type V Replacement Schedule         761,400           257,400         283,140          311,454                    1,613,394
   23-29      Ladder Truck Replacement          1,457,500         4,335,100       1,732,720        3,339,479                   10,864,799
              Schedule
   23-30      Ambulance Replacement             2,605,500         1,479,500       1,627,450        1,074,117   1,969,215        8,755,782
              Schedule
   23-31      Admin/Command Vehicle               576,000          318,600          275,270          297,292     240,807        1,707,969
              Replacement Schedule
   23-32      Support Vehicle Replacement         523,000          666,360          598,946          268,319     193,870        2,250,495
              Schedule
   23-33      Special Operations Apparatus      3,286,000         2,364,840       1,935,402                      866,747        8,452,989
              Replacement Schedule
   23-34      Power Loaders and Gurneys         2,410,030                                                                       2,410,030
   23-35      Automatic Chest Compression         422,667                                                                         422,667
              Devices


  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                                                 13
                                     CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                                       CIP OVERVIEW AND SUMMARY

                                      5-YEAR CIP PLAN SUMMARY (CONTINUED)
 Project #   Project Title                      FY22/23        FY23/24        FY24/25        FY25/26           FY26/27        Total
  23-36      Portable AreaRAE PID Monitor          85,490                                                                       85,490
  23-37      Handheld Chemical Identifier         100,000                                                                      100,000
  23-38      DRAFTS Unit                           98,958                                                                       98,958
  23-39      Boardroom Equipment                   79,494                                                                       79,494
  23-40      Copter 3 Conversion                  750,000                                                                      750,000
  23-41      iPads Replacement                     56,880                                                                       56,880
  23-42      Porta Count Unit - Fit Testing        70,000                                                                       70,000
  23-43      Turnouts Replacement                 340,000        357,000        374,850        393,593           413,272     1,878,715
             Schedule
  23-44      Recruit Turnouts                      215,000       430,500        452,025        474,627           498,358     2,070,510
  23-45      Structural Helmets                     80,000                                                                      80,000
  23-46      Training Technology Upgrades        2,000,000                                                                   2,000,000
  23-47      Level III Accessibility Study         221,000                                                                     221,000
  23-48      Dorm Lockers and Privacy               70,000                                                                      70,000
             Walls
  23-49      Alarm Deterrent System -               55,000                                                                     55,000
             Logistics
  24-01      Station 62 Relocation - Land                       2,400,000                                                    2,400,000
             Acquisition
  24-02      Station 23 Expansion                                750,000       3,750,000      4,250,000                      8,750,000
  24-03      Station 61 Expansion                                850,000       6,260,000      1,100,000          140,000     8,350,000
  24-04      Station 24 Expansion                                650,000         100,000      5,200,000        2,100,000     8,050,000
  24-05      Heavy Equipment Replacement                          57,240          46,656         50,388           54,420       208,704
             Schedule
  25-01      Rio Del Oro Land Acquisition                                      2,400,000                                     2,400,000
  Total                                       $ 42,425,794   $ 60,368,333   $ 55,974,199   $ 33,575,128    $   9,595,520   201,938,974



                                      FISCAL YEAR 2022/2023 PLAN SUMMARY
There are 49 capital projects proposed for FY2022/23 totaling $42,425,794, including 19 Priority 1
projects, 14 Priority 2 projects, and 16 Priority 3 projects. The FY2022/23 Summary, including funding
recommendations is shown below.

RECOMMENDED FOR FUNDING IN FY2022/23

                 Project #     Project Title                                                             FY22/23
                  23-01        Grant Line 220 Land Acquisition                                         $     40,000
                  23-04        Vineyard Springs Station                                                     550,000
                  23-15        Restroom Access - Phase 2                                                      5,000
                  23-25        4381 Anatolia (Old Station 68) Refurbishment                                 100,000
                  23-26        Type I Replacement Schedule                                                4,310,000
                  23-30        Ambulance Replacement Schedule                                             2,605,500
                  23-39        Boardroom Equipment                                                           79,494
                  23-40        Copter 3 Conversion                                                          750,000
                  23-43        Turnouts Replacement Schedule                                                340,000
                  23-44        Recruit Turnouts                                                             215,000
                  23-45        Structural Helmets                                                            80,000
                  23-48        Dorm Lockers and Privacy Walls                                                70,000
                   Total                                                                               $ 9,144,994




 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                                              14
                             CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                               CIP OVERVIEW AND SUMMARY
NOT RECOMMENDED FOR FUNDING IN FY2022/23
           Project #   Project Title                                                  FY22/23
            23-02      Air Operations Relocation Feasibility                      $        25,000
            23-03      Logistics Relocation Feasibility                                    25,000
            23-05      Station 42 Relocation                                               50,000
            23-06      Zinfandel Training Center - Phase III                           12,000,000
            23-07      Station 112 Expansion                                               50,000
            23-08      Apparatus Covered Parking @ Fleet Facility                         300,000
            23-09      Covered Parking & Striping @ Fleet Facility                         60,000
            23-10      Backup Generator @ Fleet Facility                                  180,000
            23-11      Draft Commander Carport @ Fleet Facility                            60,000
            23-12      Foam Truck Carport @ Station 62                                     60,000
            23-13      Boat Carport @ Station 65                                           60,000
            23-14      Future Fire Station 68 Patio Coverings                             120,000
            23-16      Station 21 Expansion                                                50,000
            23-17      Station 53 Expansion                                               150,000
            23-18      Deferred Facilities Maintenance                                  1,920,300
            23-19      Deferred Facilities Maintenance - Lifecycle Replacements         2,370,300
            23-20      Facilities Maintenance - Lifecycle Replacements                  1,905,275
            23-21      Flooring Replacement                                                65,000
            23-22      Kitchen Remodels                                                   175,000
            23-23      Shower Remodels                                                     75,000
            23-24      Station 108 Sidewalk & Apron                                       100,000
            23-27      Type III Replacement Schedule                                    1,356,000
            23-28      Type V Replacement Schedule                                        761,400
            23-29      Ladder Truck Replacement Schedule                                1,457,500
            23-31      Admin/Command Vehicle Replacement Schedule                         576,000
            23-32      Support Vehicle Replacement Schedule                               523,000
            23-33      Special Operations Apparatus Replacement Schedule                3,286,000
            23-34      Power Loaders and Gurneys                                        2,410,030
            23-35      Automatic Chest Compression Devices                                422,667
            23-36      Portable AreaRAE PID Monitor                                        85,490
            23-37      Handheld Chemical Identifier                                       100,000
            23-38      DRAFTS Unit                                                         98,958
            23-41      iPads Replacement                                                   56,880
            23-42      Porta Count Unit - Fit Testing                                      70,000
            23-46      Training Technology Upgrades                                     2,000,000
            23-47      Level III Accessibility Study                                      221,000
            23-49      Alarm Deterrent System - Logistics                                  55,000
             Total                                                                $    33,280,800




 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                              15
                              CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                                      FINANCING PLAN

                                          CAPITAL BUDGET OVERVIEW
This CIP represents the District's first comprehensive, public infrastructure plan. The District’s CIP is both
distinct from and complementary to the District’s annual budget documents. The CIP is used as a planning
tool by the District to identify the capital improvement needs consistent with the financing and timing of
those needs in a way that assures the most responsible and efficient use of resources.

Capital projects typically involve planned, systematic acquisition of physical assets over an extended
period of time and scheduled replacement or maintenance schedules. As previously stated, the District
defines capital projects as those acquisitions that have a useful life of one year or more and cost at least
$50,000. Importantly, a capital project is not the same as a capital asset, which the District defines as an
asset with a useful life of one year or more and cost at least $5000.

The capital budget in the CIP consists of the planned expenditures for Fiscal Years 2022/23 through
2026/27, and will be reviewed annually to enable the Board of Directors to reassess program projects.

The proposed capital budget for FY 2022/23 is approximately $9.1 million, distributed among 12 of the
highest priority capital projects. The table below reflects the distribution of the $9.1 million to each of
these projects by project type, fund source, cost, and percent of total. The $9.1 million in funding
programmed for FY 2022/23 is coming from three funding sources: the General Fund, Capital Facilities
Financing Funds, and Development Impact Fee Fund.


                                                                            Fund                 Percent of
 Project Type     Project Name              Project Description            Source   Amount      $9.1 Million
Equipment       Boardroom          This project will replace old             A         44,368           0.5%
                Equipment          videoconference equipment in              D         35,126           0.4%
                                   District boardroom and replace it
                                   with newer capabilities.

Equipment       Turnouts           In accordance with the District's PPE     A        340,000           3.7%
                Replacement        replacement schedule, secure 100
                Schedule           sets of turnouts.
Equipment       Structural         In accordance with the District's PPE     A         80,000           0.9%
                Helmets            replacement schedule, secure 100
                                   helmets to replace aging equipment.
Equipment       Recruit Turnouts Procure two sets of structural              A        215,000           2.4%
                                 turnouts and two sets of wildland
                                 turnouts for 30 recruits.
Facilities      Restroom Access As part of a recent facility condition       A          5,000           0.1%
                – Phase 2        assessment, this project contract for
                                 A & E firm to evaluate two stations
                                 for remodel and prepare funding
                                 plan.




  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                    16
                             CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                                     FINANCING PLAN
                                                                            Fund                         Percent of
 Project Type     Project Name             Project Description             Source      Amount           $9.1 Million
Apparatus        Type 1 Engine    Per the apparatus replacement               D          4,310,000            47.1%
                 Replacement      schedule, replace five engines this
                 Schedule         fiscal year.
Apparatus        Ambulance        Per the apparatus replacement               D          2,605,000            28.5%
                 Replacement      schedule, replace nine ambulances
                 Schedule         this fiscal year.
Apparatus        Copter 3         Procure vendor to overhaul Copter 3         D            750,000              8.2%
                 Conversion       and make it air-worthy for
                                  emergency air operations.
Facilities       4381 Anatolia    Prepare former fire station for sale        A            100,000              1.1%
                 (Old Station 68) as a residential home and remove
                 Refurbishment    adjacent metal apparatus bay.
Facilities       Dorm Lockers and Add privacy walls and dorm lockers          A             70,000              0.8%
                 Privacy Walls    for three older stations lacking these
                                  accommodations.
New              Vineyard Springs Initial planning process for fire            I           550,000              6.0%
Construction     Station          station located on Bradshaw Road
                                  south of Vintage Park Drive
Land             Grant Line 220   Secure property for planned three-           I            40,000              0.4%
Acquisition      Land Acquisition acre fire station in Rancho Cordova

               A: General Fund     I: Development Impact Fee Fund          D: Capital Facilities Fund


All projects and expenditures identified for future fiscal years beyond 2022/23 are approved on a planning
basis and do not receive expenditure authority until they are part of the capital budget for that fiscal year.
A review of the CIP is performed annually by District Board of Directors, executive staff, and public to
ensure effective implementation of the program and alignment with strategic goals and objectives.


                                 CAPITAL PROJECT REVENUE ASSUMPTIONS
The 2022/23 capital revenue outlook for the District suggests significant growth. The property tax base is
expected to grow by more than 6% relative to 2021/22 and new home and business construction will add
approximately $1 million in new development impact fee revenue. The housing market activity and
revenues are projected to ease slightly over the five-year period of this CIP plan, with property tax growth
averaging four percent in subsequent years. Medic revenues, related to the provision of medical services
and transport, are expected to increase at a slower rate, approximately two percent per year.

The District’s top two General Fund revenue sources, which account for 89% of the 2023/23 General Fund
budgeted revenues are property tax and emergency medical service transport revenue, as shown on the
following chart.




  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                           17
                             CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                                     FINANCING PLAN




Property taxes generated approximately $175.6 million, or 68% of total revenue in 2021/22, while In FY
2022/23 property tax revenues are projected to be $11.7 million above the current year adjusted budget,
and comprise 71% of total District revenue.

Emergency Medical Service revenue generated $45.6 million, or 18% of total revenue in 2021/22, while
in FY 2022/23 EMS revenues are projected to be $46.2 million above current year adjusted budget and
comprise 18% of total District revenue.

Revenue risks are greater for the secondary revenue sources, which are mainly based on subventions from
the State and Federal government for ambulance transport of Medi-Cal and uninsured patients. These
programs could be revised or eliminated by the either government—a relatively small revenue loss of
approximately six percent, but with a substantial impact on operations and capital projects.

Regional economic factors, such as a downturn in the local economy, interest rate hikes beyond those
currently anticipated, wage depression, and unemployment will affect the housing and commercial real
estate market and could have the most significant impact on District operations and capital projects.

While employment in the Sacramento region is expected to stay strong in 2022 (the regional
unemployment rate slipped from 5.0% to 3.7% between January and March 2022, and was projected to
slide further by year-end), home sales are expected to slow. According to data reported by the California
Association of Realtors, 34% of Sacramento and Placer county families could afford a median-priced home
during the first quarter of 2022. That share of homebuyers may shrink further as prices continue climbing
and interest rates are elevated to reverse inflation.

The FY 2022/23 Preliminary Budget is fiscally balanced and continues to support services, maintenance,
infrastructure, and facilities in line with the priorities of the Board of Directors.



  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                               18
                                      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                                              FINANCING PLAN

                                      EXPENSE SUMMARY BY PROJECT TYPE/FUND
The following table displays the cost of the recommended CIP projects over the plan’s five-year period.

                                       Fund     Prior                                                                           Est. Total
 Project Type      Project Name       Source   Funding     FY 22-23    FY 23-24    FY 24-25    FY 25-26       FY 26-27          Expense
Equipment       Boardroom               A      $ 31,000 $ 44,000                                                            $        75,000
                Equipment               D        25,000       35,000                                                                 60,000
Equipment       Turnouts                A                   340,000    $ 357,000   $ 375,000   $ 394,000 $       413,000         1,879,000
                Replacement
                Schedule
Equipment       Structural Helmets      A                     80,000                                                                 80,000
Equipment       Recruit Turnouts        A                   215,000     431,000     452,000     475,000          498,000         2,071,000
Facilities      Restroom Access –       A                      5,000                                                                  5,000
                Phase 2
Apparatus       Type 1 Engine           D                  4,185,000   2,762,000   4,051,000                                    10,998,000
                Replacement             A                   125,000                                                                125,000
                Schedule
Apparatus       Ambulance               D                  2,421,500   1,480,000   1,627,000   1,074,000       1,969,000         8,571,500
                Replacement             A                   184,500                                                                184,500
                Schedule
Apparatus       Copter 3 Conversion     D                   750,000                                                                750,000
Facilities      4381 Anatolia (Old      A                   100,000                                                                100,000
                Station 68)
                Refurbishment
Facilities      Dorm Lockers and        A                     70,000                                                                 70,000
                Privacy Walls
New             Vineyard Springs        D                              3,040,000   5,000,000                                     8,040,000
Construction                            I      1,300,000    550,000    1,410,000   1,000,000                                     4,260,000
New             Grant Line 220 Land     D                                          2,400,000                                     2,400,000
Construction    Acquisition             I                     40,000                                                                 40,000
Cost of Bond    Vineyard Springs        D                               198,000                                                    198,000
Issuance ($11   Station and Grant
million)        Line 220 (New
                Construction)
                                                                                                           Total Expense:   $ 39,907,000



                            PROJECT EXPENSE SUMMARY BY FUND /REVENUE SOURCE
Each of the District’s funds generate revenue has specific revenue source. The General Fund’s main
revenue sources are property taxes and fees collected for ground emergency medical transports. The
Capital Facilities Fund’s main revenue source is proceeds from capital financing. The Development Impact
Fee Fund’s main revenue source is the collection of fire facilities fees at the time building permits are
issued to developers.

When funding is insufficient to fund all project proposals, the Finance and the Economic Development
Divisions collaborate with division managers to reprioritize projects to future fiscal years, reevaluate
funding needs, and identify any alternative funding sources. This includes reviewing various state or
federal grant programs normally available to special districts and fire districts and identifying eligible
projects. On large-scale projects that can be used by other local agencies, the District considers funding
partnerships.



  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                                                      19
                              CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                                      FINANCING PLAN

The following table displays costs of the CIP plan by fund type and year of anticipated expenditure.

                               Actual Cost
                              thru June 30,
   Revenue Source by Fund         2022         FY 22-23   FY 23-24   FYU 24-25    FY 25-26    FY 26-27        TOTAL
General Fund                       $31,000 $1,163,500     $788,000     $827,000    $869,000    $911,000      $4,589,500
Capital Facilities Fund            25,000      7,391,500 7,480,000   13,078,000   1,074,000   1,969,000      31,017,500
Development Impact Fee Fund     1,300,000       590,000 1,410,000     1,000,000          -           -        4,300,000
                                                                                  Revenue Source Total: $39,907,000



                                              DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE
The following table identifies the debt service payment schedule for the next five years for capital projects
that will be funded over more than one fiscal year.
                                                                      Debt Service Costs
  Project Name                                  2022-23    2023-24        2024-25       2025-26            2026-27
  Type 1 Engine Replacement Schedule           $     -    $ 907,594     $ 1,506,606 $ 2,385,157          $ 2,385,157
  Ambulance Replacement Schedule                     -      525,038         845,895     1,198,837          1,431,779
  Copter 3 Conversion                                -      162,651         162,651       162,651            162,651
  Vineyard Springs Station                           -      474,320         474,320       474,320            474,320
  Grant Line 220 Land Acquisition                    -      141,680         141,680       141,680            141,680




  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                                20
                          CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                    CAPITAL PROJECT DETAILS BY PRIORITY AND TYPE

                                                  PRIORITY 1 PROJECTS
There are 24 Priority 1 capital projects that were submitted and are included in the CIP Plan, totaling
$174,761,769 over five years. A summary of these projects is shown below.
   Project Title               Priority    FY22/23          FY23/24       FY24/25          FY25/26        FY26/27           Total
   Grant Line 220 Land            1     $      40,000                   $ 2,400,000                                    $    2,440,000
   Acquisition
   Logistics Relocation           1            25,000                                                                         25,000
   Feasibility
   Vineyard Springs Station       1           550,000   $ 4,450,000       6,000,000                                        11,000,000
   Station 42 Relocation          1            50,000        750,000      3,750,000    $ 7,250,000                         11,800,000
   Zinfandel Training Center -    1       12,000,000    $ 30,600,000      6,400,000                                        49,000,000
   Phase III
   Station 112 Expansion          1            50,000        750,000      7,750,000    $ 7,250,000                         15,800,000
   Restroom Access - Phase 2      1             5,000                                                                           5,000
   Station 21 Expansion           1            50,000        750,000      4,125,000    $      75,000                        5,000,000
   Station 53 Expansion           1           150,000                                                                         150,000
   Type I Replacement Schedule    1        4,310,000        2,762,100     4,051,080                                        11,123,180
   Type III Replacement           1         1,356,000   $     469,700       516,670                                         2,342,370
   Schedule
   Type V Replacement Schedule    1           761,400        257,400        283,140    $    311,454                         1,613,394

   Ladder Truck Replacement       1        1,457,500    $ 4,335,100       1,732,720        3,339,479                       10,864,799
   Schedule
   Ambulance Replacement          1        2,605,500        1,479,500     1,627,450    $ 1,074,117        1,969,215         8,755,782
   Schedule
   Special Operations             1        3,286,000    $ 2,364,840       1,935,402                  -      866,747         8,452,989
   Apparatus Replacement
   Schedule
   Power Loaders and Gurneys      1        2,410,030                                                                        2,410,030
   Turnouts Replacement           1          340,000    $    357,000        374,850         393,593         413,272         1,878,715
   Schedule
   Recruit Turnouts               1          215,000         430,500        452,025    $    474,627         498,358         2,070,510
   Structural Helmets             1           80,000                                                                           80,000
   Station 62 Relocation - Land   1                         2,400,000                                                       2,400,000
   Acquisition
   Station 23 Expansion           1                     $    750,000      3,750,000      4,250,000                          8,750,000
   Station 61 Expansion           1                          850,000      6,260,000    $ 1,100,000          140,000         8,350,000
   Station 24 Expansion           1                     $    650,000        100,000      5,200,000        2,100,000         8,050,000
   Heavy Equipment                1                           57,240         46,656    $    50,388           54,420           208,704
   Replacement Schedule
   Rio Del Oro Land Acquisition   1                                       2,400,000                                         2,400,000
     Total                              $ 29,741,430    $ 54,463,380    $ 53,954,993   $ 30,768,658      $ 6,042,012   $ 174,970,473




  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                                                 21
                            CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                      CAPITAL PROJECT DETAILS BY PRIORITY AND TYPE

                                                       PROJECT TYPES
Capital projects are generally categorized into the following types:
   • Land Acquisitions – Land acquisitions or planning activities related to land acquisitions for future
        District facilities.
   • New Construction – Construction of new facilities and/or new improvements at existing
        facilities, including planning efforts for such projects.
   • Station Remodels/Expansions – Major remodel or expansion projects at existing facilities,
        including planning efforts for such projects.
   • Facilities Replacement/Repair – Maintenance, repair, and lifecycle replacement projects at
        existing facilities.
   • Apparatus and Equipment Replacement/Repair – Replacement and repair projects for
        apparatus, equipment, or bulk supplies.
   • Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Replacement/Repair – Replacement and repair projects for
        personal protective ensembles and equipment.
   • Miscellaneous Projects – Other projects that fall outside of the project types listed above, but
        meeting the qualifications for capital project as defined in the District’s CIP Policy.

The following tables describe each project type from all priority levels.

Land Acquisitions
There are a total of 5 land acquisition projects included in the five-year CIP Plan, totaling $7,290,000. A
summary of submitted land acquisition projects is shown below.
Project # Project Title                          FY22/23      FY23/24        FY24/25         FY25/26       FY26/27      Total
23-01     Grant Line 220 Land Acquisition    $      40,000                 $ 2,400,000                               $ 2,440,000
23-02     Air Operations Relocation
          Feasibility                               25,000                                                                25,000
23-03     Logistics Relocation Feasibility          25,000                                                                25,000
24-01     Station 62 Relocation - Land
          Acquisition                                          2,400,000                                               2,400,000
25-01     Rio Del Oro Land Acquisition                                       2,400,000                                 2,400,000
Total                                        $      90,000   $ 2,400,000   $ 4,800,000   $         -   $        -    $ 7,290,000




  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                                       22
                            CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                      CAPITAL PROJECT DETAILS BY PRIORITY AND TYPE
New Construction
There are a total of 13 new construction projects included in the five-year CIP Plan, totaling $105,540,000.
A summary of submitted new construction projects is shown below.
Project # Project Title                            FY22/23        FY23/24        FY24/25        FY25/26       FY26/27       Total
23-04     Vineyard Springs Station             $     550,000    $ 4,450,000    $ 6,000,000                               $ 11,000,000
23-05     Station 42 Relocation                       50,000        750,000       3,750,000     7,250,000                  11,800,000
23-06     Zinfandel Training Center - Phase
          III                                      12,000,000    30,600,000      6,400,000                                 49,000,000
23-07     Station 112 Expansion                        50,000       750,000      7,750,000      7,250,000                  15,800,000
23-08     Apparatus Covered Parking @ Fleet
          Facility                                   300,000                                                                  300,000
23-09     Covered Parking & Striping @ Fleet
          Facility                                    60,000                                                                   60,000
23-10     Backup Generator @ Fleet Facility          180,000                                                                  180,000
23-11     Draft Commander Carport @ Fleet
          Facility                                    60,000                                                                   60,000
23-12     Foam Truck Carport @ Station 62             60,000                                                                   60,000
23-13     Boat Carport @ Station 65                   60,000                                                                   60,000
23-14     Future Fire Station 68 Patio
          Coverings                                  120,000                                                                   120,000
24-02     Station 23 Expansion                                       750,000      3,750,000      4,250,000                   8,750,000
24-03     Station 61 Expansion                                       850,000      6,260,000      1,100,000     140,000       8,350,000
Total                                          $ 13,490,000     $ 38,150,000   $ 33,910,000   $ 19,850,000   $ 140,000   $ 105,540,000




                               Metro Fire Station 68 inaugurated on May 27, 2022 located at
                                 12065 Cobble Brook Drive in the City of Rancho Cordova




  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                                             23
                             CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                       CAPITAL PROJECT DETAILS BY PRIORITY AND TYPE
Station Remodels/Expansions
There are a total of 4 station remodel/expansion projects included in the five-year CIP Plan, totaling
$13,205,000. A summary of submitted station remodel/expansion projects is shown below.
Project # Project Title                            FY22/23       FY23/24        FY24/25        FY25/26        FY26/27              Total
23-15     Restroom Access - Phase 2            $       5,000                                                                   $      5,000
23-16     Station 21 Expansion                        50,000       750,000       4,125,000         75,000                         5,000,000
23-17     Station 53 Expansion                       150,000                                                                        150,000
24-04     Station 24 Expansion                                     650,000        100,000      5,200,000       2,100,000          8,050,000
Total                                          $     205,000   $ 1,400,000    $ 4,225,000    $ 5,275,000     $ 2,100,000       $ 13,205,000


Facilities Replacement/Repair
There are a total of 8 facilities replacement/repair projects included in the five-year CIP Plan, totaling
$18,135,548. A summary of submitted facilities replacement/repair projects is shown below.
Project # Project Title                          FY22/23        FY23/24        FY24/25        FY25/26        FY26/27                Total
23-18     Deferred Facilities Maintenance      $ 1,920,300                                                                 $        1,920,300
23-19     Deferred Facilities Maintenance -
          Lifecycle Replacements                   2,370,300                                                                        2,370,300
23-20     Facilities Maintenance - Lifecycle
          Replacements                             1,905,275     4,919,993      1,144,990      2,240,859     3,118,831             13,329,948
23-21     Flooring Replacement                        65,000                                                                           65,000
23-22     Kitchen Remodels                           175,000                                                                          175,000
23-23     Shower Remodels                             75,000                                                                           75,000
23-24     Station 108 Sidewalk & Apron               100,000                                                                          100,000
23-25     4381 Anatolia (Old Station 68)
          Refurbishment                            100,000                                                                      100,000
Total                                          $ 6,710,875     $ 4,919,993    $ 1,144,990    $ 2,240,859    $ 3,118,831    $ 18,135,548

Apparatus and Equipment Replacement/Repair
There are a total of 18 apparatus and equipment replacement/repair projects included in the five-year
CIP Plan, totaling $51,393,201. A summary of submitted apparatus and equipment replacement/repair
projects is shown below.
Project # Project Title                          FY22/23         FY23/24        FY24/25        FY25/26        FY26/27              Total
23-26     Type I Replacement Schedule          $ 4,310,000     $ 2,762,100    $ 4,051,080                                      $ 11,123,180
23-27     Type III Replacement Schedule           1,356,000        469,700        516,670                                         2,342,370
23-28     Type V Replacement Schedule               761,400        257,400        283,140         311,454                         1,613,394
23-29     Ladder Truck Replacement Schedule
                                                   1,457,500      4,335,100      1,732,720      3,339,479                          10,864,799
23-30     Ambulance Replacement Schedule           2,605,500      1,479,500      1,627,450      1,074,117     1,969,215             8,755,782
23-31     Admin/Command Vehicle
          Replacement Schedule                       576,000       318,600        275,270         297,292       240,807             1,707,969
23-32     Support Vehicle Replacement
          Schedule                                   523,000       666,360        598,946         268,319       193,870             2,250,495
23-33     Special Operations Apparatus
          Replacement Schedule                     3,286,000      2,364,840      1,935,402              -       866,747             8,452,989
23-34     Power Loaders and Gurneys                2,410,030                                                                        2,410,030
23-35     Automatic Chest Compression
          Devices                                    422,667                                                                         422,667
23-36     Portable AreaRAE PID Monitor                85,490                                                                          85,490
23-37     Handheld Chemical Identifier               100,000                                                                         100,000
23-38     DRAFTS Unit                                 98,958                                                                          98,958
23-39     Boardroom Equipment                         79,494                                                                          79,494
23-40     Copter 3 Conversion                        750,000                                                                         750,000
23-41     iPads Replacement                           56,880                                                                          56,880
23-42     Porta Count Unit - Fit Testing              70,000                                                                          70,000
24-05     Heavy Equipment Replacement
          Schedule                                                   57,240         46,656        50,388          54,420            208,704
Total                                          $ 18,948,919    $ 12,710,840   $ 11,067,334   $ 5,341,049     $ 3,325,059       $ 51,393,201


  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                                                    24
                            CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                      CAPITAL PROJECT DETAILS BY PRIORITY AND TYPE
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Replacement/Repair
There are a total of 3 PPE replacement/repair projects included in the five-year CIP Plan, totaling
$4,029,225. A summary of submitted PPE replacement/repair projects is shown below.
Project # Project Title                          FY22/23         FY23/24         FY24/25         FY25/26      FY26/27         Total
23-43     Turnouts Replacement Schedule        $   340,000   $     357,000   $     374,850   $     393,593   $ 413,272     $ 1,878,715
23-44     Recruit Turnouts                         215,000         430,500         452,025         474,627      498,358      2,070,510
23-45     Structural Helmets                        80,000                                                                      80,000
Total                                          $   635,000   $     787,500   $     826,875   $     868,220   $ 911,630     $ 4,029,225


Miscellaneous Projects
There are a total of 4 Miscellaneous Projects included in the five-year CIP Plan, totaling $2,346,000. A
summary of submitted Miscellaneous Projects is shown below.
Project # Project Title                          FY22/23         FY23/24         FY24/25         FY25/26         FY26/27      Total
23-46     Training Technology Upgrades         $ 2,000,000                                                                 $ 2,000,000
23-47     Level III Accessibility Study            221,000                                                                     221,000
23-48     Dorm Lockers and Privacy Walls            70,000                                                                      70,000
23-49     Alarm Deterrent System - Logistics        55,000                                                                      55,000
Total                                          $ 2,346,000   $         -     $         -     $         -     $        -    $ 2,346,000




  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                                             25
                         CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                    APPENDIX – BUDGETARY BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
The District operates on a fiscal year basis that begins on July 1 of each year, and ends the following year
on June 30. The development of the CIP Budget is a cooperative and coordinated effort across all divisions.
The process began with the development of the Budget Calendar included as part of this document. This
document contained key deadlines related to both the Operating and CIP Budgets. Divisions submitted
capital improvement project requests and requests were prioritized based on District priorities, goals,
project scheduling, and availability of funding.

Amounts proposed for FY 2022/23 were based on current year dollars using best estimates from a variety
of sources including quotes and previous expenditures for similar projects, among others. Future year’s
appropriations were based on inflationary factors such as the Consumer Price and Construction Cost
Indexes. Divisions then forwarded the prioritized projects to the Finance Division. The Finance Division
and the executive team reviewed ranked projects and determined the effect on Fund Balances/Net Assets
to ensure availability of funds to complete each project. Available fund balance and capital revenue
sources were calculated by Finance Division, with input from the respective divisions.

Public hearings are conducted on the capital improvement plan to review all appropriations and sources
of financing. Budgeted expenditures are then adopted through the passage of a resolution. The budget
represents the maximum authorized expenditures for the year and cannot legally be exceeded except by
subsequent amendments of the budget by the Board of Directors. Any amendments to the total level of
net appropriations for a fund or transfers between funds must be approved by the Board of Directors.
Capital project appropriations shall remain in effect until the project is completed or until modified in a
subsequently adopted budget.

Budget and Accounting Basis/Level of Budgetary Control
Expenditures are controlled at the fund level for all budgeted divisions within the District, the level at
which expenditures may not legally exceed appropriations. The budgets are adopted on a basis consistent
with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in accordance with standards established by the
Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB), California Society of Municipal Finance Officers
(CSMFO) and Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA).

The accounting policies of the District conform to generally accepted accounting principles. The accounts
of the District are organized on the basis of funds, each of which is considered a separate accounting
entity. Fund accounting segregates funds according to their purpose and is used to aid management in
demonstrating compliance with finance‐related legal and contractual provisions. All governmental funds
(i.e., General Fund, Capital Financing, and IGT Funds) are accounted for on the modified accrual basis of
accounting. Under this method, revenues are recognized in the accounting period in which they become
both measurable and available to finance expenditures of the current period. Revenues are recorded
when received in cash, except that revenues subject to accrual (generally 60 days after year‐end) are
recognized when due. Expenditures are recorded in the accounting period when the liability is incurred.
Under the accrual basis of accounting, revenues are recognized when earned, while expenses are
recognized when they are incurred.
The 2022/23 CIP and preliminary budget development process began in December 2021 with instructions,
training, and a fiscal condition update to help budget officers prepare their capital project requests and
budgets. This CIP plan is coordinated by the Development Division while the budget elements is overseen


  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                  26
                             CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                              APPENDIX – BUDGET CALENDAR
by the Finance Division and will be completed in June 2022, with the presentation of both to the Board of
Directors. The final budget is scheduled for adoption in September 2022.

The District follows a predictable annual budgeting process, with a preliminary budget adopted by July 1,
a final budget adopted by October 1, and a Midyear Budget, which updates all revenues and expenditures
adopted in the final Budget, by March 15 of the following calendar year. A full budget calendar is provided
below.


                                   Annual Budget Calendar
   Preliminary Budget Development
   March(early in month)      Budget Kickoff Meeting
   March (mid)                Position Requests Due
   March (late)               Preliminary Budget Requests & Manager Approvals Due
   April (early)              Division Budget Review Meetings
   April (mid)                Revised Budget Requests Due
   April (mid)                Executive Staff Budget Review Meeting
   May (late)                 Preliminary Budget Presented to Finance & Audit Committee
   June (early)               Preliminary Budget Presented to Full Board
   June(late)                 Second Presentation of Preliminary Budget to Full board (if needed)

   Final Budget Enactment
   July (late)                   Final Budget Requests due to Finance Division
   August (early)                All Budget Officers Budget Proposal Review Meeting
   August (early)                Executive Staff Budget Review Meeting
   August (late)                 Final Budget Presented to Finance & Audit Committee
   September (early)             Final Budget Presented to Full Board
   September (late)              Second Presentation of Final Budget to Full board (if needed)

   Final Budget: First Quarter Review
   November (early)              First Quarter Estimates Due to Finance Division
   November (early)              First Quarter Budget Review Meeting

   Midyear Budget Review
   January (mid)                 Midyear Budget Requests due to Finance Division
   January (late)                All Budget Officers Budget Proposal Review Meeting
   February (early)              Executive Staff Budget Review Meeting
   February (mid)                Midyear Budget Presented to Finance & Audit Committee
   March (early)                 Midyear Budget Presented to Full Board
   March (mid)                   Second Presentation of Midyear Budget to Full board (if needed)




  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                 27
                           CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                             APPENDIX – GUIDE TO FUNDS
   Fund Letter          Fund Name                                    Description
“A” Fund             General Fund         The General Fund is the District’s main operating fund and,
                                          in addition to paying for ongoing costs associated with capital
                                          projects, is typically used for equipment or supply acquisition
                                          and facility improvements.

“D” Fund             Capital Facilities   The Capital Facilities Fund is used to account for general
                     Fund                 operating transfers to fund capital purchases. The majority of
                                          CIP projects will budgeted from the Capital Facilities Fund,
                                          and monies from other funds will be transferred to the
                                          Capital Facilities Fund for expenditure during the fiscal year.

“G” Fund             Grants Fund          The Grant Fund is used to account for various types of grants
                                          awarded to the District. For the purposes of the CIP, if a
                                          proposed project is not selected for funding due to cost or
                                          availability, Metro Fire may pursue grant funding
                                          opportunities. If an award is made, the funds are accounted
                                          for and administered in the Grant Fund. When possible, the
                                          District identifies and pursues grants to minimize the use of
                                          District funds.

“I” Fund             Development          The Development Impact Fees Fund accounts for payments
                     Impact Fees Fund     made by developers to fund construction of fire and
                                          ambulance facilities, equipment, and services to support the
                                          planned community. These funds are restricted for use on
                                          capital outlay relating to acquisition of land, construction of
                                          future fire stations, and acquisition of apparatus.

“L” Fund             Leased Properties    The Leased Facilities Fund contains revenues from Metro
                     Fund                 Fire’s leased facilities, most often a rental payment. A portion
                                          of these revenues are retained for capital maintenance and
                                          replacement projects of leased facilities.

“M” Fund             Intergovernmental The Intergovernmental Transfers Fund, or IGT Fund, is
                     Transfers Fund    generated by the payments made to the District for the care
                     (“IGT Fund”)      and ambulance transport of persons without medical
                                       insurance. These funds must be used on medical-related
                                       costs, which includes certain apparatus and facilities
                                       dedicated to offsetting medical expenses.




Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                   28
                          CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                        APPENDIX – GLOSSARY AND ACRONYMS
  1. Budget. The official financial spending and resource plan submitted by the Fire Chief and adopted
     by the Board of Directors.

  2. Buildings. Buildings are permanent structures and other related improvements placed onto
     District owned or leased land. Building alterations are considered Capital Assets when they
     increase the value or life of the building.

  3. Capital Asset. A capital assets is an asset with an individual cost of $5,000 or more and a useful
     life of at least one year. Capital Assets include Land, Buildings, Equipment, and other related
     improvements.

  4. Capital Improvement Program (CIP). A multi-year program and plan that identifies capital
     projects necessary for the implementation of the District’s various long-range plans including the
     Standards of Cover, Growth Plan, Facility Condition Assessment, and Apparatus and Equipment
     Replacement Schedule. The CIP includes a five-year projection, including a one-year funding
     recommendation, and financing options.

  5. Capital Project. Any expenditure for facilities, improvements, apparatus, or equipment with a cost
     greater than $50,000 and an expected useful life of at least one year. These projects include
     apparatus and equipment acquisition and replacement; improvements to District facilities; and
     the construction or rehabilitation of District properties and facilities including feasibility studies,
     land acquisition, architecture and engineering, and other associated planning costs.

  6. Capitalizable Cost. The cost or, if acquired by donation, the appraised value or estimated fair
     market value on the date received. It also includes all ancillary charges to place the asset into its
     intended location and condition for use.

  7. Committed Fund Balance. A classification of Fund Balance. Committed Fund Balance amounts
     can only be used for specific purposes as determined by a formal action of the Metro Fire Board
     of Directors.

  8. California Society of Municipal Finance Officers (CSMFO). A statewide organization of municipal
     finance professionals. CSMFO annually sponsors a Budget Awards Program that recognizes
     municipal budgets in four categories: operating budgets, capital budgets, public communications
     documents, and innovations in budgeting.

  9. Debt. An obligation resulting from the borrowing of money or from the purchase of goods and
     services. Debts of governments include bonds, time warrants, and notes.

  10. Debt Service. Payment of interest and repayment of principal to holders of the District’s debt
      according to a predetermined schedule.

  11. Development Impact Fee (a.k.a. fire facilities fee). A fee charged by Metro Fire to mitigate the
      costs associated with property acquisitions, site preparation, design, construction, and equipping
      of fire stations that will serve new or expanding development within Metro Fire’s service areas.
      This fee serves to protect the health and safety of the general public and preserve lives and
      property, and is authorized by California Government Code Section 66000 et seq.


Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                    29
                          CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                        APPENDIX – GLOSSARY AND ACRONYMS
  12. Expenditures. Decreases in net financial resources. Expenditures include current operating
      expenses requiring the present or future use of net current assets, debt service and capital
      outlays.

  13. Emergency Medical Services (EMS). Emergency medical first responder and ambulance transport
      services.

  14. Equipment. Equipment is moveable personal property of a relatively permanent nature and of
      significant value. Relatively permanent nature should be interpreted as having an expected useful
      life of at least one year, and significant value should be interpreted as a unit cost of at least $5,000.

  15. Fiscal Year. The 12-month accounting period used by the District, from July 1 through June 30 of
      the following calendar year.

  16. Fund. A separate set of accounts used to record receipt and use of money restricted for specific
      purposes. Types of funds include:
         • The General Fund receives unrestricted monies to be used for District services.
         • Special Revenue funds are revenues earmarked for specific purposes.
         • Debt Service funds are used to repay the principal and interest on indebtedness.
         • Capital Project funds are used to account for construction of major public facilities.
         • Internal Service funds are activities that provide services to other District entities.

  17. Fund Balance. Governmental Fund balance sheet assets less liabilities, equals fund balance.
      Accountants distinguish up to five separate categories of fund balance, based on the extent to
      which the government is bound to honor specific purposes spending constraints. These five
      categories are: Non-spendable Fund Balance, Restricted Fund Balance, Committed Fund Balance,
      Assigned Fund Balance, and Unassigned Fund Balance (all separately defined herein).

  18. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). The standard body of accounting rules in
      general use by public agencies and businesses.

  19. Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB). The body created by Congress to define the
      rules of accounting for the public sector. (The FASB, or Financial Accounting Standards Board,
      performs the same function for the private sector.

  20. General Fund Operating Reserves. These are Unassigned Reserves accounted for in the General
      Fund that are used for unexpected costs, revenue shortfalls, and smoothing cash flow prior to the
      receipt of expected revenue. In particular, cash flow is needed prior to the receipt of property
      taxes in January, May and June.

  21. Operating Budget. Day-to-day costs of delivering District services.

  22. Operations. Departmental costs for employees, contract services, repairs and maintenance,
      internal services, supplies and other expenses. A majority of operations costs are personnel-
      related. These expenses are generally predictable and consistent with the on-going service
      demands of the District, and impacts of inflation and bargaining group agreements.



Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                       30
                          CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                        APPENDIX – GLOSSARY AND ACRONYMS
  23. Reserve. An account used to indicate that a portion of fund equity is legally restricted for a specific
      purpose

  24. Restricted Fund Balance. A classification of fund balance. Restricted fund balance amounts can
      only be spent for specific purposes, which are stipulated outside the control of Metro Fire’s Board
      of Directors by State law, granting entities, legal agreements, or enabling legislation, etc.
      Restricted Fund Balance examples are grant funds, debt proceeds, and Development Impact Fees.

  25. Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER). A grant provided to the District by
      the Federal Government.

  26. Unassigned Fund Balance. A classification of Fund Balance. Any Fund Balance amounts not
      classified as Restricted Fund Balance, Committed Fund Balance, and Assigned Fund Balance.




Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                                     31
                           CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                              APPENDIX – RESOLUTIONS




Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                    32
                           CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                              APPENDIX – RESOLUTIONS




Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                    33
                                            CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                                        APPENDIX – LOCATION OF FUNDED PROJECTS




Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                            34
                              CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                                   APPENDIX – CIP INDEX
Below is a listing of all CIP project requests (funded and unfunded) submitted for FY 2022/23.

                                                                                FY 2022/23
         Project #   Project Title                                                 Status    Page
          23-01      Grant Line 220 Land Acquisition                              Funded      36
          23-02      Air Operations Relocation Feasibility                      Not Funded    38
          23-03      Logistics Relocation Feasibility                           Not Funded     40
          23-04      Vineyard Springs Station                                     Funded       42
          23-05      Station 42 Relocation                                      Not Funded     44
          23-06      Zinfandel Training Center - Phase III                      Not Funded     46
          23-07      Station 112 Expansion                                      Not Funded     48
          23-08      Apparatus Covered Parking @ Fleet Facility                 Not Funded     50
          23-09      Covered Parking & Striping @ Fleet Facility                Not Funded     52
          23-10      Backup Generator @ Fleet Facility                          Not Funded     54
          23-11      Draft Commander Carport @ Fleet Facility                   Not Funded     56
          23-12      Foam Truck Carport @ Station 62                            Not Funded     58
          23-13      Boat Carport @ Station 65                                  Not Funded     60
          23-14      Future Fire Station 68 Patio Coverings                     Not Funded     62
          23-15      Restroom Access - Phase 2                                    Funded       64
          23-16      Station 21 Expansion                                       Not Funded     66
          23-17      Station 53 Expansion                                       Not Funded     68
          23-18      Deferred Facilities Maintenance                            Not Funded     70
          23-19      Deferred Facilities Maintenance - Lifecycle Replacements   Not Funded     72
          23-20      Facilities Maintenance - Lifecycle Replacements            Not Funded     74
          23-21      Flooring Replacement                                       Not Funded     76
          23-22      Kitchen Remodels                                           Not Funded     78
          23-23      Shower Remodels                                            Not Funded     80
          23-24      Station 108 Sidewalk & Apron                               Not Funded     82
          23-25      4381 Anatolia (Old Station 68) Refurbishment                 Funded       84
          23-26      Type I Replacement Schedule                                  Funded       86
          23-27      Type III Replacement Schedule                              Not Funded     88
          23-28      Type V Replacement Schedule                                Not Funded     90
          23-29      Ladder Truck Replacement Schedule                          Not Funded     92
          23-30      Ambulance Replacement Schedule                               Funded       94
          23-31      Admin/Command Vehicle Replacement Schedule                 Not Funded     96
          23-32      Support Vehicle Replacement Schedule                       Not Funded     98
          23-33      Special Operations Apparatus Replacement Schedule          Not Funded   100
          23-34      Power Loaders and Gurneys                                  Not Funded   102
          23-35      Automatic Chest Compression Devices                        Not Funded   104
          23-36      Portable AreaRAE PID Monitor                               Not Funded   106
          23-37      Handheld Chemical Identifier                               Not Funded   108
          23-38      DRAFTS Unit                                                Not Funded   110
          23-39      Boardroom Equipment                                          Funded     112
          23-40      Copter 3 Conversion                                          Funded     114
          23-41      iPads Replacement                                          Not Funded   116
          23-42      Porta Count Unit - Fit Testing                             Not Funded   118
          23-43      Turnouts Replacement Schedule                                Funded     120
          23-44      Recruit Turnouts                                             Funded     122
          23-45      Structural Helmets                                           Funded     124
           23-46     Training Technology Upgrades                               Not Funded    126
           23-47     Level III Accessibility Study                              Not Funded    128
           23-48     Dorm Lockers and Privacy Walls                               Funded      130
           23-49     Alarm Deterrent System - Logistics                         Not Funded    132

  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                                                             35
36
x




    5/11/22




              37
38
x
    5/11/22




              39
40
x
    5/11/22




              41
42
x



    5/11/22




              43
44
x
    5/11/22




              45
46
x
    5/11/22




              47
48
x
    5/11/22




              49
50
x
    5/11/22




              51
52
x
    5/11/22




              53
54
x
    5/11/22




              55
56
x
    5/11/22




              57
58
x
    5/11/22




              59
60
x
    5/11/22




              61
62
x
    5/11/22




              63
64
x



    5/11/22




              65
66
x
    5/11/22




              67
68
x
    5/11/22




              69
70
x
    5/11/22




              71
72
x
    5/11/22




              73
74
x
    5/11/22




              75
76
x
    5/11/22




              77
78
x
    5/11/22




              79
80
x
    5/11/22




              81
82
x
    5/11/22




              83
84
x



    5/11/22




              85
86
x



    5/11/22




              87
88
x
    5/11/22




              89
90
x
    5/11/22




              91
92
x
    5/11/22




              93
94
x



    5/11/22




              95
96
x
    5/11/22




              97
98
x
    5/11/22




              99
100
x
    5/11/22




              101
102
x
    5/11/22




              103
104
x
    5/11/22




              105
106
x
    5/11/22




              107
108
x
    5/11/22




              109
110
x
    5/11/22




              111
112
x



    5/11/22




              113
114
x



    5/11/22




              115
116
x
    5/11/22




              117
118
x
    5/11/22




              119
120
x



    5/11/22




              121
122
x



    5/11/22




              123
124
x



    5/11/22




              125
126
x
    5/11/22



              127
128
x
    5/11/22




              129
130
x



    5/11/22




              131
132
x
    5/11/22



              133
