                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2022



ACTION ITEMS
1.   Fiscal Year 2022/23 Preliminary Budget (CFO Dave O’Toole)                                                   16
      **   Separate Attachment
      A. Resolution – 2022/23 Preliminary Budget for the                        17
         General Operating Fund 212A
      B. Resolution – 2022/23 Preliminary Budget for the                        19
         Capital Facilities Fund 212D
      C. Resolution – 2022/23 Preliminary Budget for the                        21
         Grants Fund 212G
      D. Resolution – 2022/23 Preliminary Budget for the                        23
         Development Impact Fees Fund 212I
      E. Resolution – 2022/23 Preliminary Budget for the                        25
         Leased Properties Fund 212L
      F. Resolution – 2022/23 Preliminary Budget for the                        27
         IGT Fund 212M
      Recommendation: Receive Presentation/Adopt FY 2022/23 Budget Resolutions.

2.    Capital Improvement Program Plan (CFO Dave O’Toole)                                                          29
      **   Separate Attachment
      Recommendation: Receive Presentation/Adopt FY 2022/23 CIP Resolution.

3.    FY 2021/22 Budget Amendment (CFO Dave O’Toole)                                                               31
      Recommendation: Adopt resolutions amending the FY 2021/22 General Fund
      and Capital Facilities Fund.

4.    Sacramento Local Agency Formation Commission – Nomination for                                                36
      2022/2023 CALAFCO Board of Directors (Board Clerk Penilla)
      Recommendation: Nominate Director Jones of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
      District for the District Member seat for the Central Region.

5.    Ratification of Resolution to Extend Teleconference of Board                                                 49
      Meetings (Government Code 54953(e) (3)) (President Saylors)
      Recommendation: Consider adopting a Resolution which would extend the
      ability to teleconference without compliance of Government Code paragraph
      (3) of subdivision (b) of section 54953 from June 9, 2022 – July 8, 2022
      or until further re-ratified.

REPORTS
1.   PRESIDENT’S REPORT—(President Saylors)

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT—(Chief Harms)
            OPERATIONS’ REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

3.    SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice President)




                                                                                                                          P3
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Avenue  Mather, California 95655  Phone (916) 859-4300  Fax (916)859-3720


TODD HARMS
  Fire Chief




DATE:          June 9, 2022

TO:            Board of Directors

SUBJECT: Sacramento Local Agency Formation Commission – Nominations for
         2022/2023 CALAFCO Board of Directors


                                           SUMMARY

Nominations are open for the fall elections of the CALAFCO Board of Directors for the
District Member seat in the Central Region.

                                          DISCUSSION

The Sacramento Local Agency Formation Commission (LAFCo) is seeking nominations
for the seat listed above. Currently, Director Gay Jones holds the District Member seat
for the Central Region. Director Jones wishes to continue serving in this role. She
began work with LAFCo in 2004, currently serves as a Board Member, and serves on
the Special District Advisory Committee.

Nominations must be submitted no later than September 19, 2022 at 5:00pm.

                                    RECOMMENDATIONS

Consider nominating Director Jones of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District’s
Board of Directors for the District Member seat for the Central Region.

Submitted By:


_______________________________
Melissa Penilla, Board Clerk

Attachment (1) – Nominations for the 2022/2023 CALAFCO Board of Directors




                                                                                                                  P36
