                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
     Todd Harms
      Fire Chief
                                           BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING

                                              Thursday, June 9, 2022 – 6:00 PM
                                               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Cinthia Saylors                                     10545 Armstrong Avenue
Board President
Division 1
                                                   Board Room – Second Floor
                                                        Mather, California
D’Elman Clark                                                   &
Board Vice President
Division 6                                             Remotely Via Zoom
                                                      Phone: (669) 900-6833
Walt White
Board Secretary                                    Webinar ID: 821 1646 5138#
Division 9                                           Passcode: 572 510 719#
Grant Goold
Board Member
                           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                     and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Randy Orzalli
Board Member
                       The Governor has declared a State of Emergency to exist in California as a result of
Division 3             the threat of COVID-19 (aka the “Coronavirus”). The Governor issued Executive
                       Order N-25-20 and N-29-20, which directs Californians to follow public health
Ted Wood               directives including canceling large gatherings. Per the State of Emergency effective
Board Member
Division 4             March 2, 2020, the Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       proclaimed that a local emergency exists, and authorized remote teleconference
Jennifer Sheetz        meetings from May 12, 2022 through June 10, 2022 pursuant to Brown Act
Board Member           provisions.
Division 5

Matt Kelly             The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of the
Board Member           Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all appropriate health
Division 7
                       safety precautions. If you would like to view the meeting via the Zoom
Gay Jones              Application, please contact Board Clerk Penilla via email at the address listed
Board Member           below.
Division 8

                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
                       reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance
                       of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable accommodations:

                                                                  Melissa Penilla
                                                                    Board Clerk
                                                                  (916) 859-4305
                                                         penilla.melissa@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.



                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                           THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2022


CALL TO ORDER

ROLL CALL

PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT
The Open Session Meeting is videotaped for cablecast on Metro Cable 14. Replay on Sunday,
June 12th at 3:00pm and Monday, June 13th at 12:00 noon on Channel 14; Webcast at
metro14live.saccounty.net.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN DISTRICT
JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and encourages public
interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public members desiring to address the
Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding officer and identify themselves for the record.
The presiding officer may in the interest of time and good order limit the number of public member
presentations. Speakers’ comments will be limited to three minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members of the Public
requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be present or have a
representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of issues to
committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval, declaration of surplus
equipment, and other consent matters. Consent Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board
member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                 Page No.
1.   Action Summary Minutes                                                       6
     Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board
     meeting of May 26, 2022.

2.      Disclosure of Material Expenditure – Insurance Brokerage Services –                                          11
        USI Insurance Services
        Recommendation: Authorize payment of $50,000.00 to USI Insurance
        Services for brokerage services.

3.      Disclosure of Material Expenditure – Aviation Liability Insurance –                                          12
        Westchester Fire Insurance Co.
        Recommendation: Authorize payment of $115,548.00 to Westchester Fire
        Insurance Co.

4.      Disclosure of Material Expenditure – Excess Workers’ Compensation            14
        Insurance – Safety National Casualty Corporation
        Recommendation: Authorize payment of $574,486.00 to Safety National Casualty
        Corporation.
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2022



ACTION ITEMS
1.   Fiscal Year 2022/23 Preliminary Budget (CFO Dave O’Toole)                                                   16
      **   Separate Attachment
      A. Resolution – 2022/23 Preliminary Budget for the                        17
         General Operating Fund 212A
      B. Resolution – 2022/23 Preliminary Budget for the                        19
         Capital Facilities Fund 212D
      C. Resolution – 2022/23 Preliminary Budget for the                        21
         Grants Fund 212G
      D. Resolution – 2022/23 Preliminary Budget for the                        23
         Development Impact Fees Fund 212I
      E. Resolution – 2022/23 Preliminary Budget for the                        25
         Leased Properties Fund 212L
      F. Resolution – 2022/23 Preliminary Budget for the                        27
         IGT Fund 212M
      Recommendation: Receive Presentation/Adopt FY 2022/23 Budget Resolutions.

2.    Capital Improvement Program Plan (CFO Dave O’Toole)                                                          29
      **   Separate Attachment
      Recommendation: Receive Presentation/Adopt FY 2022/23 CIP Resolution.

3.    FY 2021/22 Budget Amendment (CFO Dave O’Toole)                                                               31
      Recommendation: Adopt resolutions amending the FY 2021/22 General Fund
      and Capital Facilities Fund.

4.    Sacramento Local Agency Formation Commission – Nomination for                                                36
      2022/2023 CALAFCO Board of Directors (Board Clerk Penilla)
      Recommendation: Nominate Director Jones of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
      District for the District Member seat for the Central Region.

5.    Ratification of Resolution to Extend Teleconference of Board                                                 49
      Meetings (Government Code 54953(e) (3)) (President Saylors)
      Recommendation: Consider adopting a Resolution which would extend the
      ability to teleconference without compliance of Government Code paragraph
      (3) of subdivision (b) of section 54953 from June 9, 2022 – July 8, 2022
      or until further re-ratified.

REPORTS
1.   PRESIDENT’S REPORT—(President Saylors)

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT—(Chief Harms)
            OPERATIONS’ REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

3.    SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice President)
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                         THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2022


4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
      10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.
      A.      Executive Committee – (President Saylors)
              Next Meeting: TBD

      B.      Communications Center JPA – (DC Wagaman)
              Next Meeting: June 14, 2022 at 9:00 AM

      C.      California Fire & Rescue Training JPA – (Chief Harms)
              Next Meeting: June 15, 2022 at 8:00am
              Location:        3121 Gold Canal Drive
                               Mather, CA 95670

      D.      Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Orzalli)
              Next Meeting: June 23, 2022 at 5:30 PM

      E.      Policy Committee – (Director Goold)
              Next Meeting: TBD


BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION
1.   Conference with Labor Negotiator
     Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6
     A. District Negotiator:    Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
        Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      B. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      C. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      D. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

      E. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                              THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2022


2.         CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL – ANTICIPATED LITIGATION –
           Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
           Section 54956.9 (b): Three cases
           A. Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
               Raed Sabbah v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               Deputy Chief Bailey

           B. Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
              Victoria Kalish v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              Deputy Chief Bailey

           C. Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
              Darlene Watson v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
              Deputy Chief Bailey

3.         CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL – EXISTING LITIGATION –
           Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9(d)(1): One case
                     Case No. 34-2020-00286706-CU-BC-GDS
                     Medic Ambulance Service, Inc. v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District

4.         Public Employee Performance Evaluation: Fire Chief
           Pursuant to Government Code Sections 54957 and 54957.6

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, 10545
Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA
     •     Next Board Meeting – June 23, 2022 at 6:00 PM

The following action and presentation items are scheduled for the next board meeting agenda.
Board members are requested to identify additional action or presentation items they desire to
be scheduled on the agenda.
ANTICIPATED AGENDA ITEMS: TBD

Posted on June 6, 2022


______________________________________
Melissa Penilla, Clerk of the Board
* No written report
**       Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
