Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, February 7, 2023

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the regular meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Other Board members
present: Bina Lefkovitz, Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Joanne Ahola, Alfred Brown,
Harold Fong, and Heather Davis.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendent Nick Schweizer; Assistant Superintendents Brent Malicote and
Jacqueline White; Executive Directors Michael Kast, Xanthi Soriano, and Jerry Jones;
and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Fong lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

There were no public comments.

B. Employee Organizations

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of December 13, 2022

Motion by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

4. Adoption of Agenda




02.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         1
A. Motion to approve the adoption of the agenda as presented by Trustee Fong,
   second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

SITE VISITS: Board and Guest Tours
In mid-January, Michael Kast led SCOE Foundations Academy site tours for Board and
Cabinet members to highlight the work of SCOE teachers, paraeducators, nurses, and
many specialists. Thank you, Trustees Ahola and Keefer for joining us on these tours
and thank you Trustee Corona Sabeniano for visiting earlier in December. Our staff
always enjoy sharing their work and student progress.

TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT: Emergency Preparedness
On January 20, SCOE hosted a state-wide meeting for the County Office of Education
Technology Directors to collaborate on a variety of important technology-related topics,
including Cybersecurity, Disaster Recovery, and Data Privacy. Jerry Jones conducted a
mock disaster scenario exercise, which required the directors to work together to
determine how to best keep their organizations functioning during an incident like the
Oroville Spillway disaster in 2017 using the disaster recovery resources provided by
SCOE. With great appreciation, attendees parted with many new ideas on how to help
their organizations better prepare for a real disaster.

SCOE NETWORKS: EL RISE! Principals in Anchor LEAs
On January 25, SCOE, together with Yolo COE, LA COE, and Tulare COE, serving as
an anchor county for their regions of the state, hosted the first and only in-person forum
for Principal's in Anchor LEAs across California with EL RISE! SCOE’s partnership with
EL RISE! Has been instrumental in supporting our districts in meeting the needs of
multilingual-English learner students. We thank Californians Together for leading this
effort across the state and we thank our LEAs for their commitment to this important
work.

SPECIAL AWARDS: Martin King Luther Jr. Celebration
We thank Trustees Ahola and Brown for attending the January 28 Martin Luther King Jr.
celebration with us. The program was rich with community and scholarship awards,
student speakers, and community leaders whose voices came together to remind us
about the important teachings of Dr. King. We also celebrated Dr. Kasirye and President
Nelson who received the Congressman Robert Matsui Service Award, presented



02.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           2
virtually by Congresswoman Doris Matsui.

LEADERSHIP: Matt Navo (CCEE)
On February 1, Mr. Matt Navo, Executive Director for the California Collaborative for
Educational Excellence, addressed district and Board leadership at our Sacramento
County School Board Association Meeting. Thank you, Trustees Keefer, Davis,
Lefkovitz, Corona Sabeniano, and Brown for taking part in this timely and important
dialogue as we emerge from the pandemic to find solutions based on where education
is headed in California. Cabinet members engaged with district superintendents and
Board members to discuss various perspectives of what the biggest opportunities and
challenges were to statewide investments for Whole Child Design.

STUDENT EVENTS: Month of February
It’s now February and we have several notable events underway. Every year at this
time, SCOE staff help bring students together from throughout the Sacramento Region
to participate in civic, academic, and arts opportunities.

On February 4, Guadalupe Delgado and the Cal-SOAP staff helped students and their
families complete their financial aid applications at the Steps to College Fair hosted by
the Mexican Consulate. This fair is known as the largest bilingual and binational
university fair in Northern California with approximately 2,000 people registered to
attend. Guadalupe presented two workshops on Financial Aid 101, one in English and
one in Spanish. Thank you Trustee Corona Sabeniano for your advocacy of this special
event. KCRA, in addition to Spanish language media, covered the event which was also
picked up by the Sacramento Bee.

Also, on February 4, we held the 43rd Academic Decathlon at Folsom High School. 14
schools participated, 3 were from Placer County, and approximately 180 parents,
students, and supporters attended. Ms. Xanthi Soriano was delighted to lead the quiz
this year as the Quiz Captain. Thank you, Trustee Corona Sabeniano for attending. The
final winners will be announced at the Academic Decathlon Awards Banquet on
February 8.

There is a graduation scheduled at El Centro on February 15. Trustees will receive a
Board Communication as a Save the Date that lists upcoming graduations between now
and the end of June.

In addition to the El Centro graduation, Mock Trial was held on February 15 with the
final round of Moot Court happening on February 28. On February 23, the Poetry Out
Loud program took place at Rosemont High. On February 27, the staff at Leo A.
Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School welcomed special education teachers and administrators
(10 guests) from the city of Amersfoort, Netherlands. Their interest is in transition
services and Palmiter is one of the programs they visited while in California. They
enjoyed a Culinary Arts luncheon and a tour of the horticulture program.

Sacramento History Day is scheduled for early March.



02.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          3
We are very thankful for the community volunteers who stepped up from throughout
SCOE and the region to help judge and/or provide support for all of these wonderful
programs.

B. Recognition of the March 2023 Employees of the Month - Xanthi Soriano

Sis Hendrix, Administrative Assistant, was recognized and honored as the classified
employee of the month of March.

Edith West, Vision Specialist, was recognized and honored as the certificated employee
of the month of March.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
   White/Michael Kast

Executive Director Michael Kast announced that 11 students will be awarded diplomas
including 2 Candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. Senior Extension; 3 Candidates
from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School; 4 Candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior
Extension; and 2 Candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. No Contracts

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

A. Title III County Office of Education Regional English Learner Specialists Agreement
Grant - Brent Malicote

Motion by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola




02.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           4
10. New Business - Other

A. Authorization to Enter into Contracts for E-Rate Services - Jerry Jones

Motion by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Lefkovitz
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

B. Authorization for Out-of-State Travel for Trustees Alfred Brown and Heather Davis -
David W. Gordon

Motion to approve by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Lefkovitz
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Ahola
No: Trustee Fong
Abstain: Trustees Davis, Brown

C. Informational Item: Revisions to ARR 6158 - Independent Study - Teresa Stinson

SCOE Legal Counsel, Ms. Stinson presented this item.

D. Informational Item: Revisions to ARR 6173 - Homeless Education - Teresa Stinson

SCOE Legal Counsel, Ms. Stinson presented this item.

E. Board Report - Youth Leadership Development through Friday Night Live/Club Live -
Brent Malicote

Executive Director Kristin Wright introduced Joelle Orrock, Coordinator, Prevention and
Early Intervention who presented the Board report which included the following guest
speakers: Gold River Discovery Center 8th grade student Ender Shore, Rio Linda High
School 11th Grade student and Friday Night Live Mentor Miguel Vasquez, and Rio
Linda High School 11th Grade student, Friday Night Live Mentor and President Mya
Magana.

F. Board Report - Governor's Budget - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer presented an overview of the Governor's
Budget.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola thanked Michael Kast for hosting site visits and commented that she
appreciated getting to see staff serving students, students that have some of the most



02.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            5
exceptional needs in the county. She also stated that it was great to see the Full
Inclusion Preschool partnership with SETA program in action. She thanked
Superintendent Gordon and SCOE for having a table at the Martin Luther King, Jr.
dinner and commented that she hopes SCOE continues to participate in these events.

Trustee Brown shared a memory from elementary school of the Golden Rule which
states “do unto others as you would have them do unto you”.

Trustee Lefkovitz commented that she has the privilege of mentoring students at the
juvenile hall and feels fortunate to participate and thanked SCOE for setting up the
program. She also commented that she has been appointed to a Statewide Youth
Apprenticeship Advisory Committee and stated that she will be talking more about that
in the future. CSBA Advocacy Day is scheduled for March and she encouraged other
Trustees to attend. She stated that she is not able to attend this year.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano attended the Steps to College event and thanked SCOE for
participating. She stated that Sac State has a similar event coming up in October. She
thanked Xanthi Soriano for her work at the Academic Decathlon reading the very long
problems at the Super Quiz and said that she did an amazing job.

Trustee Davis - no report.

Trustee Fong commented that he would like to continue the discussion regarding the
scheduling of things. He also referenced a book he is reading, Making Americans by
Jessica Lander. He stated that he is intrigued by some of the educational programs
described in the book that are used to help newcomers become Americans and more
comfortable in their new environment.

B. Board President

President Keefer commended Mr. Kast for being professional and well informed during
his site visits and stated that he is a great asset for SCOE. President Keefer expressed
an interested in attending Friday Night Live events. He read a poem by P.H., an El
Centro guest. The poem is from Dark Path, Bright Future and entitled “Grateful”.

C. Committees - no reports

12. Items for Distribution

A. February/March Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. February 21, 2023 and March 7, 2023

14. Adjournment



02.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             6
A. Motion to adjourn meeting in memory of Dr. Rex Fortune, by Trustee Brown, second
   by Trustee Ahola

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

Meeting adjourned at 8:24 p.m.




02.07.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                    7
