Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
Tuesday, March 21, 2023 – 6:30 p.m.

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the regular meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Other Board members
present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Alfred Brown, Harold Fong, and Heather Davis.
Trustees Joanne Ahola and Bina Lefkovitz were absent.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Deputy
Superintendent Nancy Herota; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate Superintendent
Nick Schweizer; Assistant Superintendents Brent Malicote and Jacqueline White;
Executive Directors Michael Kast, Xanthi Soriano, and Jerry Jones; and Executive
Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Brown led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

Patricia Hughes, April Bean, Kimberly Montano, and Kristy Van Loben Sels made Public
Comments in opposition to AB659 Cancer Prevention Act: .

Blanca (no last name provided on speaker card), and Marina Gabel made Public
Comments in opposition to AB659 Cancer Prevention Act and AB1078 Instructional
materials. .

Rachel Kattan made Public Comments in opposition to AB1078 Instructional materials::.
Gabriel Ingram made Public Comments in opposition to AB659 Cancer Prevention Act,
AB1078 Instructional materials: and ACA-9 Superintendent of Public Instruction:
gubernatorial appointment. She spoke in favor of CA AB 984 Pupil instruction: high school
graduation requirements: personal finance:

B. Employee Organizations

3. Approval of Minutes


03.21.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          1
A. Motion by Trustee Fong to approve the Minutes of the Board/Superintendent Retreat of
   January 21, 2023, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Lefkovitz

B. Motion by Trustee Davis to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of
   February 7, 2023, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Lefkovitz

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion by Trustee Corona Sabeniano to adopt the agenda, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Lefkovitz

5. Official Correspondence

A. No Official Correspondence.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

TEACHER EVENTS (COUNTYWIDE)
Last Thursday, many of our Trustees (Brown, Davis, and Corona Sabeniano) and I, along
with several Cabinet members, had the opportunity to recognize Heroes of Arts Education
at the Friends of Sacramento Arts Gala. Students, teachers, school leadership, arts
visionaries, and local officials were present for a delightful evening of recognition and
student performance. Our own Dr. Steve Winlock and Jackie White were acknowledged for
their leadership in helping to build a strong arts education foundation across Sacramento
County.

This evening, we honored SCOE’s 2024 Teacher of the Year nominees. We look forward
to seeing who will be selected in the final round to represent SCOE in the County Teacher
of the Year selection process. Speaking of Teacher of the Year, coming up on April 23, we
will be hosting our last event to honor our current 2023 Sacramento County Teachers of
the Year at the River Cats Ball Park at 1:00 p.m. We are looking forward to an eventful
afternoon following the first pitch.

STUDENT EVENTS (COUNTYWIDE)
Moving on to student events, after being on hiatus due to the pandemic, Joelle Orrock and

03.21.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         2
her team brought back a fun and positive event for middle school students throughout the
county with the annual Lip Sync Competition. The event took place two weeks ago at The
Sofia Theatre and was a hit! Winners received cash prizes and gifts donated by CrossFit
Kawai, the Daggett Family, Gregg and Nyla Daggett, Vickie Good, Tom and Joelle Orrock,
Iulia Panescu-Quiazon, and SCOE Cabinet members. Thank you, Trustee Corona
Sabeniano, for being present at this wonderful student event.

On April 26 at 6:30 p.m., Friday Night Live and Club Live Mentoring will have a year-end
appreciation event at the Mack Powell Events Center at 2003 Howe Avenue in
Sacramento. This event, featuring student speakers, will honor our student leaders, faculty
advisors, mentors and proteges who participated in this year’s programs. Lastly, we
received wonderful news yesterday that Alex Yue from John F. Kennedy High School in
Sacramento City Unified will represent Sacramento County as the 2023 California Poetry
Out Loud State Champion and will go on to represent the state of California at the national
finals in May in Washington, D.C.

Please contact Wende Watson if you would like to attend any upcoming events.

SCOE RECRUITMENT
On Saturday, March 18, SCOE hosted a first-of-its-kind regional recruitment event in
collaboration with the Tulare COE and the California Center on Teaching. This event had
an in-person and a virtual option. In-person, 278 people were registered and 46 percent or
128 attended. For the virtual option, which was shared with the Sonoma COE, 742 were
registered (of those, 309 were for the Sonoma area) and 40 percent or 297 showed-up
online. SCOE hosted 60 local educational agencies looking to hire certificated and
classified staff. During this event, one could see strong and positive engagement. Thanks
to local media who responded to our requests to help spread the word. We received
coverage on KCRA, Fox 40, and in the Sacramento Bee.

SPRING CONVENINGS
An important role SCOE plays is bringing together experts for high quality training and
information sharing on critical and timely educational topics. This week, Jackie White and
her directors will lead the Counselor Spring Institute at Sacramento State University on
March 23 and 24. One of the sessions focuses on the whole-child concept and the
interconnectedness of SEL, Mental Health, and academic counseling on school sites.

Also on March 24, Monica Gonzalez and her team will lead the Health Education and
Career (HEC) Conference at Sac State on behalf of our foster youth students in
Sacramento County. The program is packed with resources for early intervention and
prevention including youth rights and finance.

On Tuesday, March 28, SCOE will host the Sacramento County Coalition for Youth for a
Fifth Annual Sacramento County Prevention Summit at the Doubletree Hotel in
Sacramento. Approximately 200+ attendees are expected from across Sacramento County
and beyond. This summit has proven to be a wealth of information and resources for our
community and engages all in a day of information sharing, prevention data and resources
as we continue to carve out ways to support our youth in making good, healthy decisions
around substance use and prevention.

03.21.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           3
On March 29, SCOE will welcome the Spring convening of the California Early Literacy
Professional Learning Network.

NEXT BOARD MEETING
Our next Board Meeting will be held during the day on April 7, here in the Board Room
starting at 12:30 p.m. Because it is also the week of Spring Break and our SCOE schools
are out, we moved our normal Employee of the Month recognition to April 18.

IN MEMORY
On Saturday, March 25, family, friends, and colleagues will come together to celebrate the
life and legacy of Dr. Rex Fortune and how his vision will continue to live on within his
community and beyond.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Davis to adopt the Consent Agenda, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Lefkovitz

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

B. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White/Michael
   Kast

Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White announced that nine students will be awarded
diplomas, including three candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. Senior Extension; five
candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School; and one candidate from North Area Senior
Extension.

D. Donation to the Sacramento County Academic Decathlon - Rachel Perry

E. Declaration of Equipment Listed as Surplus Property and Authorization to Dispose of
Equipment Pursuant to Education Code (Technology) - Jerry Jones

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. No Contracts

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts and
Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

A. No Grants

03.21.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           4
10. New Business - Other

A. Second Interim Financial Report for the 2022-2023 Fiscal Year - Nicolas Schweizer

B. 2022-2023 Budget Revision No. 2 - Nicolas Schweizer

Nicolas Schweizer, Associate Superintendent, introduced Trustee Heather Davis, Budget
Committee Chair, to present the Second Interim Financial Report for the 2022-2023 Fiscal
Year and the Budget Revision No. 2 for the 2022-2023 Fiscal Year.

Motion to approve the Second Interim Financial Report for the 2022-2023 Fiscal Year and
the Budget Revision No. 2 for the 2022-2023 Fiscal Year by Trustee Brown, second by
Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Lefkovitz

C. Board Report - Workforce Development - Career Pipeline - Shanine Coats

Shanine Coats, Director, Strategic Initiatives presented the Workforce Development -
Career Pipeline Board Report.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Brown - no report.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano attended the infant massage session facilitated by the
Classified Employee of the Year. She encouraged others to attend.

Trustee Davis - no report.

Trustee Fong wished all the SCOE Teacher of the Year candidate’s good luck.

B. Board President

President Keefer urged Board members to look at the legislation that was referenced
during public comments and stated that he planned to do so as well.

Mr. Keefer read the poem entitled Most Treasured Possession written by a student from El
Centro.

C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution


03.21.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         5
A. March/April Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. April 7, 2023 and April 18, 2023

14. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Trustees Ahola, Lefkovitz

The meeting adjourned at 8:27 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




03.21.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                             6
