Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m. REVISED

Tuesday, September 6, 2022

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

Acting President Davis called the regular meeting to order at 5:52 p.m. Other Board
members present: Bina Lefkovitz, Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Harold Fong, Joanne
Ahola. Trustees Keefer and Brown were not present.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
General Counsel Teresa Stinson; and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Fong lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

Acting President Davis stated that the meeting will recess, and the Board will convene
in Closed Session under Government Code Section 54956(d) regarding Pending
Litigation, Application No. 22-802 to the California Attorney General to file Complaint In
Quo Warranto. The Board has provided public notice that the Board will meet in Closed
Session for this purpose.

Recessed Open Session at 5:53 p.m.

Convened Closed Session at 5:57 p.m.

Adjourned Closed Session at 6:48 p.m.

The Board reconvened Open Session at 6:53 p.m.

In addition to previously noted Board members and SCOE staff, the following individuals
were present at this time: President Paul Keefer, Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota,
Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer (via Zoom); Assistant Superintendents
Jacqueline White and Brent Malicote, Director Shanine Coats, and Executive Director
Jerry Jones.

Acting President Davis announced that the Board took no action in Closed Session and
turned the meeting over to President Keefer who was not present during Closed
Session.

09.06.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                               1
2. Approval of Minutes

A. Motion to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of June 14, 2022, by
Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee
Heather Davis, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Abstain: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano
Absent: Trustee Alfred Brown

B. Motion to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of June 28, 2022, by
Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee
Heather Davis, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Abstain: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano
Absent: Trustee Alfred Brown

3. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion to approve the adoption of agenda as presented by Trustee Ahola, second by
Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Absent: Trustee Alfred Brown

4. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

5. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

Sean Frame made a public comment regarding the Personnel Transaction report and
other employment matters.

Simeon Gant made a public comment regarding Court and Community Schools and
Green Tech Education partnership.

Duncan McFetridge made a public comment regarding the Yes on Prop 28 Campaign.

B. Employee Organizations

09.06.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        2
There were no presentations from SCOE’s employee organizations.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent’s Report

B. Recognition of the October 2022 Employees of the Month

Superintendent Gordon introduced Principal Guy Holman to present the October
Classified Employee of the Month Mary Jacino, Para Educator, Foundations Academy.

Principal Lisa Alcalá introduced the October Certificated Employee of the Month
Jennifer Leeper, Teacher, Alternative Education.

Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

SCOE’s 2022 Employee Recognition Program and BBQ
Friday, August 12 began with an hour-long virtual Employee Recognition Program.
President Keefer welcomed SCOE staff as we celebrated the start of a new school year.
Many employees were involved in planning the live stream program, as well as
recording the various segments, including honoring years of service, highlighting great
programs, and giving away fun prizes. Following the virtual program, nearly 300
employees enjoyed the BBQ served at the Conference Center. It was nice seeing many
familiar faces as well as meeting new employees who have joined SCOE over the past
few pandemic-years. A good time was had by all.

Sacramento County 2023 Teachers of the Year
On Friday, August 26 local school district officials, civic leaders, and families gathered
at the Hilton on Harvard Street to honor 12 District Teachers of the Year at our first in-
person awards event since the pandemic. Included in the list of honorees was
Horticulture Teacher Kevin Jordan, SCOE’s Teacher of the Year from Leo A. Palmiter
Jr./Sr. High School. President Keefer, Vice President Davis, along with Trustees Brown
and Ahola, attended the event and joined in presenting all 12 honorees their individual
awards. Dr. Keefer presented the Elinor Lincoln Hickey Award of Merit to Rachel Baird
from Elk Grove Unified School District, and Logan Grinsell from San Juan Unified
School District, who were named as Sacramento County 2023 Teachers of the Year.
They will move on to the state competition.

Special Education
All SCOE Special Education sites are open. There is a shortage of staff, and it is difficult
to cover programs with the lack of substitutes. Fortunately, the Special Education staff
have been extremely flexible during this time to cover sites and classrooms as needed.
SCOE is currently using (9) para-educators from contracted agencies.

SCOE will be hosting a Job Fair Saturday, September 10, 2022, at the David P. Meaney
Center. The focus will be on filling our difficult-to-fill paraprofessional positions.


09.06.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                               3
Staff and students at Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School will be hosting Back to School
Night on Monday, September 12 from 5:30-7:00 p.m. Families, Board Members, and
SCOE staff are invited to visit the campus to view programs, projects, and Palmiter’s
renowned horticultural center and garden. There will be no whole group gathering in the
cafeteria this year. Instead, families and guests will go directly to students’ classroom so
as to encourage smaller gatherings.

And even more news at Palmiter: The Culinary Café is scheduled to reopen Thursday,
October 27. More information will be provided at the September 20 Board meeting.

Court and Community Schools
All SCOE Court and Community programs are open. There are 25 students enrolled at
Colley (14 in-person/11 Independent Study) and 31 students enrolled at Hickey (25 in-
person/6 Independent Study). There are currently 235 students enrolled in Senior
Extension. CARE enrollment is at 165 students in 10 classrooms. All Court and
Community programs started the year with staff out due to illness, however colleagues
continue to be flexible and resilient in ensuring we provide support for students on a
daily basis.

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI)
The Sacramento County DEI Community of Practice convened on August 24, where
equity leaders shared insights about their priorities, needs, and success in their districts.
On August 25, the 5-part National Equity Project (NEP) learning series started. On
September 8, DEI launches a 5-part series with Changing Perspectives that will focus
on understanding the inclusion of students with disabilities. On September 13, Retired
Sacramento Police Chief Daniel Hahn will begin a 3-part series entitled, “A Way
Forward,” focused on Sacramento history and its impact on our community today.
September 15 kicks off Hispanic Heritage month, which is a time to reflect on the vibrant
historical, cultural, and social influence of Hispanic and Latinx people within the U.S.
and the world. As part of SCOE’s celebration of Hispanic Heritage we are welcoming
New York Times bestselling author, Julissa Arce, who will share her views on
belonging, culture, and self-love as chronicled in her book, ”You Sound Like a White
Girl: The Case for Rejecting Assimilation.”

Prevention Programs
On August 2, SCOE’s Bullying Prevention team distributed bullying prevention
resources to families at the Elk Grove Multicultural Festival. The festival provided
attendees an opportunity to celebrate the rich and diverse communities of Elk Grove
and the broader Sacramento area. Over 2,000 “kindness coins” were distributed,
encouraging children to notice and reward their friends and family when they do
something nice.

September 4-10 is National Suicide Prevention Week. This national campaign is
observed annually to educate and inform the public about suicide prevention and the
warning signs of suicide. This month, in partnership with the Department of Behavior
Health Services, SCOE’s Prevention and Early Intervention team will provide training to
the Sacramento Sheriff’s Department and Elk Grove Police Department on how to
notice signs of suicide and intervene in a crisis. There is now a 988 Suicide and Crisis

09.06.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             4
Lifeline—a three-digit, nationwide phone number to connect those in need directly to
trained professionals.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Corona
Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Absent: Trustee Alfred Brown

By approval of the consent agenda, the following items were approved:

B. Accept Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
White/Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White announced that the following students will
be awarded a diploma: 5 candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley Senior Extension; 3
candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension; and 5 candidates from North
Area Senior Extension.

D. Deferred Maintenance and Modernization Projects - Nicolas Schweizer

E. Declaration of Equipment Listed as Surplus Property and Authorization to Dispose of
Equipment Pursuant to Education Code (Technology) - Jerry Jones

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Davis

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Absent: Trustee Alfred Brown

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Motion to approve by Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.


09.06.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         5
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Absent: Trustee Alfred Brown

A. COVID-19 Public Health Workforce Development Grant - Dr. Nancy Herota

B. Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSAA)
Alcohol and Substance Use Prevention (ASAP 3.0) Grant - Brent Malicote

C. American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) Alcohol and Substance Use Prevention (ASAP
3.0) Grant - Brent Malicote

10. New Business - Other

A. Pending Ballot Initiative: California Proposition 28 - Nicolas Schweizer/Teresa
Stinson

Legal Counsel Teresa Stinson presented this item with the option to provide a letter, or
not provide a letter, in support of CA Proposition 28.

The Board discussed and considered action to support California Proposition 28.

Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer answered questions from the Board.

Motion by Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano in favor of providing a
letter of in support of CA Proposition 28.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Joanne Ahola
No: Trustee Paul Keefer
Absent: Trustee Alfred Brown

B. Notice of Public Hearing and Adoption of Resolution No. 22-16 - Determination of
Textbooks and/or Instructional Materials Sufficiency Pursuant to Education Code
Section 60119 for SCOE's Community and Special Education Schools - Jacqueline
White/Michael Kast

Executive Director Michael Kast presented this item.

Public Hearing opened at 7:44 p.m.

There were no public comments.

The Public Hearing closed at 7:46 p.m.

Motion to approve by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

09.06.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             6
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Absent: Trustee Alfred Brown

C. Board Report - USA Learns - Jerry Jones

Executive Director Jerry Jones introduced Director Andrea Willis to present the USA
Learns report.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Fong thanked the other trustees for supporting Prop 28.

Trustee Davis commented it was exciting to attend the Teacher of the Year Banquet.
One of the teachers that won teaches at the middle school that her mom went to, and
the other teacher taught her daughter in high school.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano stated that she is part of the California State University,
Sacramento (CSUS) Alumni Advisory Council. Some of the work that CSUS is doing
involves trying to reengage students to continue their education and complete their
degree. She asked if the other trustees know anyone that has started, but not
completed their degree to encourage them to re-enroll in school. She also commented
that community colleges have a declining enrollment that will likely impact future
enrollment.

Trustee Lefkovitz applied to be part of California County Boards of Education (CCBE)
and no one else has applied so she commented that she may be accepted. She
commented that the Black Parallel School Board has put out a really great Parent
Guidebook and it could be useful in helping people get engaged with their schools.

Trustee Ahola enjoyed attending the Teacher of the Year event again. It had not been
hosted for several years due to COVID. She noted that many teachers remarked that
this school year feels “normal” and that she is encouraged by that and hopes it
continues.

Trustee Fong asked for a copy of the SCOE telework policy and asked that the SCOE
salary schedule be examined.

President Keefer stated that the Superintendent is the employer of SCOE employees.
The Board is not the employer and does not make SCOE personnel decisions. He
stated that he wished to make clear what the role of the Board is in regard to personnel
decisions.

B. Board President

09.06.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             7
President Keefer acknowledged Ms. Lefkovitz’s article in the California School Boards
Association (CSBA) publication. He also commented that community college enrollment
has decreased by 20 percent. He is trying to form a Rotary Club for ages 18-30, which
is a worldwide service club.

C. Committees

There were no Committee reports.

12. Items for Distribution

A. September/October Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. September 20, 2022 and October 11, 2022

14. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to Adjourn Meeting by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Absent: Trustee Alfred Brown

The meeting adjourned at 8:36 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,


Date approved:




09.06.22 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        8
