                                                                        Unapproved

      SACRAMENTO COUNTY COMMITTEE ON SCHOOL DISTRICT ORGANIZATION

                       Minutes of the Meeting of August 5, 2021

                         VIA ZOOM/TELECONFERENCE CALL

I.       Call to Order and Roll Call
II.      Pledge of Allegiance
III.     Approval of the Minutes of the June 9, 2020 Sacramento County Committee on
         School District Organization Meeting
IV.      Adoption of Agenda
V.       Visitor Presentations
         A. General Public
VI.      New Business
         A. Public Hearing and Action on San Juan Unified School District’s Proposal
            Under Education Code section 5019 to Increase its Board Members from Five
            to Seven, Change Election Methods, Establish Sequence of Elections; Action
            on Resolution No. CC-21-01
VII.     Adjournment
I.        Chair Talamantes called the meeting to order at 6:36 p.m. in the Board Room
of the San Juan Unified School District, 3738 Walnut Avenue, Carmichael, California
and via Zoom video and/or teleconference. Board members present were Joanne
Ahola, Al Brown, Heather Davis, Harold Fong, Paul Keefer, and Karina Talamantes.
Board member Bina Lefkovitz attended via Zoom video. Also present were David W.
Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the County Committee; Teresa Stinson,
General Counsel; other staff and visitors; and Wende Watson, Executive Assistant.

II.         Committee Member Davis led the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.      Committee Member Brown moved to approve the minutes of the June 9, 2020
Sacramento County Committee on School District Organization Meeting. Committee
Member Fong seconded the motion. Motion carried 7 ayes, 0 noes, 0 absent, 0
abstentions based on the following Roll Call vote:

Ms. Lefkovitz – yes
Mr. Keefer – yes
Mr. Fong – yes
Ms. Davis – yes
Mr. Brown – yes
Ms. Ahola – yes
Ms. Talamantes – yes

IV.       Committee Member Davis moved and Committee Member Ahola seconded
adoption of the agenda.

There was a public comment from Scott Rafferty.


                                        21-1-CC
Motion carried 6 ayes, 1 no (Fong), 0 absent, 0 abstention based on the following Roll
Call vote:

Ms. Lefkovitz – yes
Mr. Keefer – yes
Mr. Fong – no
Ms. Davis – yes
Mr. Brown – yes
Ms. Ahola – yes
Ms. Talamantes – yes

V.A. General Public Comments

There was a public comment from Scott Rafferty.

VI.A.     Chair Talamantes announced that the Sacramento County Committee on
School District Organization (County Committee) will hold a public hearing on the San
Juan Unified School District’s (San Juan) proposal to change the number and method of
electing governing board members.

Currently, five governing board members are elected by the registered voters of the
entire school district (“at-large elections”). San Juan proposes to increase the number
of governing board members from five to seven, change its election method so that one
governing board member residing in each trustee area will be elected by the registered
voters who reside in that trustee area (by “trustee area elections”), and establish the
sequence of elections.

This public hearing will provide the opportunity for individuals and constituents to
provide public comment and input regarding San Juan’s proposal. At the conclusion of
the public hearing, the County Committee may approve or deny San Juan’s proposal.

Chair Talamantes reviewed the public hearing format.

Chair Talamantes opened the Public Hearing at 6:47 p.m.

Michelle Cannon, San Juan Legal Counsel, led the presentation regarding San Juan’s
Proposal to transition to by-trustee area elections, including adoption of its proposed
trustee areas map, increase to seven board members, and establish sequence of
elections.

Superintendent Kern summarized the actions taken to gain community input, including
creating a website, advertisements and local publications, phone calls and mailings,
social media postings, community meetings, and public hearings in front of the Board of
Education, in an effort to reach as many individuals as possible.

Demographer Justin Rich presented San Juan’s process for adopting its proposed
trustee areas map.


                                       21-2-CC
Board President Villescaz thanked the committee and addressed questions regarding
the Board’s process.

Chair Talamantes referred to SCOE Legal Counsel Ms. Stinson regarding Committee
Member Fong’s question regarding equal time for opposing views.

Ms. Stinson referenced Board Bylaw 9370 that states that individuals are allowed up to
two minutes to make a public comment unless there are extenuating circumstances.

The following individuals introduced themselves and provided public comments:

Maria Grijalva
Robyn Cox
Juan Yniguez
Ben Avey
Scott Rafferty
Glenn Snyder
Tim Slapt
Fred Latu
Kevin Fernandez
Magali Kincaid

Mr. Herrera read public comments that were submitted in writing from the following:

Dharia McGrew
Terry Ollis
Marina Gabel
Michaela Golden
Kathy Sasabuchi
Barbara Morarity-Van Dyke
Robert Burbridge
Allan Stone
Tony Oddo
Maggie Smith
Patricia Schmid
Robert Hall
Robert Bernstein
Carol Cowan
Cassidy Carrera, Sarah Skubic, Mike Villegas, Elvia Diaz, Julieta Millan, and Jocelyn
    Millan Noriega
Blanche Skubic, Yesenia Diaz, and Maria Millan
Stanley Skubic, Briana Diaz, and Isaias Carrasco
Marti Velasco
Jesse J. Villegas, Sr.
Phillip Cory Rippetoe
Lucinda Luttgen
Mary McPherson
Jeannie Bruins

                                       21-3-CC
Denise Williams-Nelson
Jerry Still
Cheryl Dultz
Julia Himovitz
Amy Adame
Richard Cowan
Larry Fritz
Doreen Silva
Cheryl Davis
Muriel Brounstein
Brian Sittner
Robert Nielsen
Robert Dresser
Cheryl Dultz
Rita Hauf
Tom Nelson
Patricia Johnson
Aime Millan
Adali Gonzalez, Leopoldo Noriega, and Julieta Sandoval
Amy Kassouni
Melee Rose
Councilman Bret Daniels
Annie Georgia
Teresa Garcia
Austin Schlocker
Kula Koenig

Chair Talamantes closed the Public Hearing at 8:17 p.m.

The County Committee Members asked questions and deliberated.

Chair Talamantes explained that the County Committee’s role is to consider and
approve or deny the proposal submitted by San Juan. She explained that, from what
we have heard in tonight’s meeting, San Juan would have preferred to wait for 2020
Census data to complete its change to by trustee area elections. However, because of
numerous factors, San Juan has chosen to proceed now to meet certain statutory
deadlines. Once the 2020 Census data is released for use by districts, San Juan will be
required to use the new data to adjust its trustee area boundaries, just as every other
public entity with trustee area elections is required to do. In doing so, San Juan will be
required to follow all state and federal redistricting laws, and the community will have an
opportunity to participate in that process. For our purposes tonight, the County
Committee’s only role is to approve or deny the current proposal submitted by the San
Juan. San Juan’s proposal and public comments were heard and considered, and the
committee has deliberated. Chair Talamantes then asked if there was a motion to
approve or deny San Juan’s proposal.

Committee Member Keefer moved, and Committee Member Ahola seconded the motion
to approve the San Juan Unified School District’s proposal and to adopt Resolution No.

                                         21-4-CC
CC-21-01 with a technical edit to page 3 of the Resolution to change the word
“uninhabited” to “vacant”.
Committee Member Fong offered a substitute motion that the decision on this proposal
be delayed until additional public hearings are held. There was not a second. The
motion failed.
Chair Talamantes asked that a vote be taken on the original motion.
Motion carried 6 ayes, 1 no (Fong), 0 absent, 0 abstention based on the following Roll
Call vote:
Ms. Lefkovitz – yes
Mr. Keefer – yes
Mr. Fong – no
Ms. Davis – yes
Mr. Brown – yes
Ms. Ahola – yes
Ms. Talamantes – yes
Chair Talamantes stated having approved San Juan’s proposal, in accordance with
Education Code section 5021, the County Committee will now need to determine the
sequence of elections for Trustee Areas 1, 6, and 7 “by lot.” Trustee Talamantes
announced that the first two trustee areas drawn will be scheduled for election in 2022,
and the third trustee area drawn will be scheduled for election in 2024. Superintendent
Gordon displayed separate pieces of paper containing the numbers 1, 6, and 7, folded
each paper so the numbers could not be seen, and placed the three folded papers in a
box. Committee Member Keefer was selected to draw from the box. The first two
trustee areas drawn were 7 and 6 and will be scheduled for election in 2022. The last
trustee area drawn was 1 and will be scheduled for election in 2024.
Committee Member Keefer moved to adjourn, and Committee Member Brown
seconded the motion. Motion carried 7 ayes, 0 noes, 0 absent, 0 abstention based on
the following Roll Call vote:
Ms. Lefkovitz – yes
Mr. Keefer – yes
Mr. Fong – yes
Ms. Davis – yes
Mr. Brown – yes
Ms. Ahola – yes
Ms. Talamantes – yes
Meeting adjourned at 8:56 p.m.
                                        Respectfully submitted,


                                        David W. Gordon
                                        Secretary to the County Committee
Date approved:

                                       21-5-CC
