NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING and AGENDA - Sacramento County Committee on
School District Organization - Center Joint Unified School District, Roseville City
School District, and Roseville Joint Union High School District

Tuesday, August 15, 2023 at 6:00 p.m.

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

Committee Chair Bina Lefkovitz called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. at the David P.
Meaney Education Center at 10474 Mather Boulevard in Mather. Other Committee
Members present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong (via Zoom),
Heather Davis, Alfred Brown, and Joanne Ahola.

Also present were Superintendent David W. Gordon; SCOE Associate General Counsel
Barbara Liebert; Executive Director Jerry Jones; and Executive Assistant Wende
Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Committee Member Brown led the Pledge of Allegiance.

E. Notice of Public Hearing - Input Regarding California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA) Potential Environmental Effect of Proposed Transfer of Territory from Center
Joint Unified School District to Roseville City School District and Roseville Joint Union
High School District

2. Visitor Presentations

A. General Public

Committee Chair Lefkovitz asked if there were any public comments. No one came
forward.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of the Minutes of the County Committee Meeting of February 25, 2023

Motion to approve the minutes of the County Committee Meeting of February 25, 2023
by Committee Member Corona Sabeniano, second by Committee Member Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried

08.15.23 County Committee Meeting Minutes                                                   1
Yes: Committee Members Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Brown, Ahola
Abstain: Committee Members Lefkovitz, Davis

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Adoption of Agenda

Motion by Committee Member Brown to adopt the agenda, second by Committee
Member Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Committee Members Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Brown, Ahola, Lefkovitz,
Davis

5. Correspondence

A. March 27, 2023 Letter and Resolution from Center Joint Unified School District in
Opposition to the Territory Transfer Petition and Requesting Placer and Sacramento
County Committees to Deny the Petition

6. NEW BUSINESS

A. Potential Environmental Effect of Proposed Transfer of Territory from Center Joint
Unified School District to Roseville City School District and Roseville Joint Union High
School District - Barbara Liebert

The Sacramento County Office of Education (SCOE) Associate General Counsel
Barbara Liebert presented regarding the potential environmental effect of proposed
transfer of territory from Center Joint Unified School District (CJUSD) to Roseville City
School District and Roseville Joint Union High School District (Roseville Districts).

Ms. Liebert stated that before approving a proposal to reorganize school districts, the
County Committee must first determine the application of CEQA to the reorganization
project. If the County Committee finds the project is exempt from CEQA, no further
environmental review is necessary, and in such cases, the County Committee may file a
notice of CEQA exemption, if it chooses to do so. (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 14, section
15062, subd.(a).)

Ms. Liebert further reported that the proposed territory transfer appears to be exempt
from CEQA. Under CEQA regulations, certain types of projects are categorically exempt
from CEQA requirements, including minor additions to schools. This is defined as,
"minor additions to existing schools within existing school grounds where the addition
does not increase original student capacity by more than 25% or 10 classrooms,
whichever is less." (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 14, section 15314.)

In conclusion of her presentation, Ms. Liebert said that there do not appear to be
applicable exceptions to the exemption.




08.15.23 County Committee Meeting Minutes                                                   2
Committee Chair Lefkovitz invited lead petitioner Ms. Campell to address the County
Committee.

Ms. Campbell thanked the committee and reiterated that even with additional homes
being built they would still be within the limits of the exemption.

CJUSD Superintendent Scott Loehr stated that CJUSD has previously submitted a
petition of opposition to the territory transfer, but CJUSD has no opposition to the CEQA
exemption.

Roseville City School District was present but had no comment.

Roseville Joint Unified School District was not present.

The Public Hearing opened at 6:12 p.m.

There were no public comments.

The Public Hearing closed at 6:13 p.m.

Motion by Committee Member Ahola to approve the finding that the proposed territory
transfer is categorically exempt under CEQA without exception in accordance with the
public resource code section 21084 and CEQA regulations; second by Committee
Member Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Committee Members: Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Brown, Ahola, Lefkovitz,
Davis

7. ADJOURNMENT

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to adjourn the meeting by Committee Member Keefer, second by Committee
Member Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Committee Members Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Brown, Ahola, Lefkovitz,
Davis

The meeting was adjourned at 6:18 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,


David W. Gordon
Secretary to the County Committee

Date approved:

08.15.23 County Committee Meeting Minutes                                               3
