Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
Tuesday, August 15, 2023 - 6:30 p.m.

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Lefkovitz called the regular meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Other Board
members present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Alfred Brown, Harold Fong (via Zoom),
Heather Davis, Paul Keefer, and Joanne Ahola.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Acting
General Counsel Elizabeth Linton; Associate Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer;
Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White; Executive Directors Michael Kast, Xanthi
Soriano, and Jerry Jones; and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

The Pledge of Allegiance was recited in the County Committee meeting immediately
preceding this meeting.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

The following individuals made Public Comments in support of Miracle University:
Dr. Kadhir Rajal, Tio Sessoms, Jesse Smith, Tamara Eugene, Kajuon Howard, mother of
Kajuon Howard, Pastor Lewis Keyes, Afzal Rashid, Ureyda Patino, Aaron Cardoza,
Ramona Landeros, Carmen Ayon, and Wayne Sheppard (via Zoom).

The following individuals made Public Comments regarding CSEA negotiations:
Terryl Wheat (via Zoom) and Sean Frame.

B. Employee Organizations

Tara Degg, President of CSEA Chapter 480, provided an update on negotiations.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meetings of June 13, 2023, June 27,
   2023, and July 11, 2023.



 08.15.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        1
Motion by Trustee Ahola to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meetings of June
13, 2023 and July 11, 2023; second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

Motion by Trustee Fong to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting June 27,
2023; second by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Abstain: Trustee Ahola

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Adoption of Agenda

Motion by Trustee Davis to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented; second by
Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

5. Official Correspondence

A. No Official Correspondence

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

In July, SCOE received an award confirmation in the amount of $2.5 million for the
Educator Workforce Investment Grant (EWIG): Effective Language Acquisition Programs
(ELAP). Thanks to Graciela Garcia-Torres and the Curriculum and Instruction team for
their outstanding work. Through this grant, SCOE will provide regional leadership that
focuses on professional learning for teachers and paraprofessionals to implement
programs for our English Learner students.

Also in July, our Special Education and Student Program teams, including
Court/Community, College and Career, Adult Re-Entry and CARE took part in a 3-day
Summer Learning event themed, "The Stories We Tell," which featured several keynote
speakers like Sharroky Hollie, Dr. Adam Freas, Milton Bowens, and Marcus Strother.
Thank you, Trustee Davis, for attending the engaging panel discussion.

At the end of July, our Career Pipeline team and School-Based Mental Health and
Wellness team collaborated to provide an onboarding orientation for more than 90 mental


 08.15.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        2
health clinicians, Graduate Clinical Interns, family navigators, and specialists. The
purpose of the orientation was to help team members gain an understanding of SCOE's
school-based mental health and wellness vision, mission, and values; develop and
strengthen their school-based mental health and wellness community; and to share
program updates.

Our Career Pipeline has also been granted the CA Workforce Board’s High Road
Training Partnership in the amount of $1.6 million, to help continue funding pipeline
efforts. SCOE will partner with the Sacramento Employment and Training Agency among
other partners. The grant will support the training of Career Pipeline Participants,
including the peer specialists.

To support our professional learning at SCOE, we launched SCOE's new Professional
Learning Registration System (PRLS) on August 1. The new user-friendly system will
allow for more robust reporting that will help in future professional learning development
and communication. Thank you to Executive Director Jerry Jones and the CNTS and IMS
teams for launching the new system.

Planning for the launch of Sacramento County Reads! Literacy Initiative continues with
ongoing discussions internally among our multi-department advisory team, and last week,
our superintendent subcommittee gathered to provide their input, collective areas of
strengths, and needs. We will be supporting LEAs in identifying a team from each district
to come together to learn from one another and will continue to engage additional SCOE
departments, schools, and most importantly our community partners with an intensive
focus on system-wide literacy development customized per the needs of each district.

Recently, our School of Education refreshed its logo, and Margaret Arthofer, in the
School of Education, was promoted to Director II where her experience in Educational
Leadership, Curriculum, Instruction, and Accountability will continue to be a proven asset
for the team.

Last week, we held our 38th Annual Employee Recognition Day with the theme "SCOE:
The Many Hats We Wear." It was a full day of learning, fun team building activities, and
an opportunity for staff to be in community while recognizing and celebrating SCOE
employees. Thank you, President Lefkovitz, Trustee Keefer, and Vice President Brown
for joining us.

SCOE Schools and Student Programs have resumed classes for the new school year.
SCOE's Foundations programs have started in the following districts: Center, Elk Grove,
Sac City, Galt High School, and our own preschools. Staff had great energy and students
were welcomed back with big hearts and smiles. The first day of school across all
programs has been going extremely well.

On August 23 at 9:00 a.m., we look forward to the first graduation ceremony of the new
school year for El Centro students. The 2024 Sacramento County Teacher of the Year
Awards Banquet will be held on August 25 at the Hilton Arden-West Hotel with arrivals
starting at 5:30 p.m. We will be honoring 15 Teachers of the Year throughout Sacramento
County Districts, and we will announce the two teachers who will be moving forward as


 08.15.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            3
the Sacramento County Teachers of the Year! All our 15 District Teachers of the Year will
be celebrated and recognized at future events with the Sacramento Kings, Sacramento
River Cats, and the Sacramento Republic. Please contact Wende Watson if you would
like to attend any of these events.

B. Recognition of the September 2023 Employees of the Month - Xanthi Soriano

Tina Engwis, School Secretary, Court and Community Schools, was recognized and
honored as the classified employee of the month for September.

Allen Walsh, Teacher, Foundations Academy, was recognized and honored as the
certificated employee of the month for September.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White /
   Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White announced that the following 19 students will
be award a diploma: five candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. Senior Extension, three
candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School, four candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey
Senior Extension, and seven candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

D. Declaration of Equipment Listed as Surplus Property and Authorization to Auction
Property Pursuant to Education Code - Nicolas Schweizer

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion by Trustee Brown to approve the contracts as listed; second by Trustee Keefer.

Public Comment: Sean Frame made a public comment regarding the ATX Learning LLC
contract.

Amended motion by Trustee Brown to approve the contracts as listed with the exception
of the ATX Learning LLC contract; second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried


 08.15.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         4
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
No: Trustee Fong

Motion by Trustee Ahola to approve the ATX Learning LLC contract, second by Trustee
Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola
No: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Fong

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Davis to authorize the submission of grant applications/service
contracts and accept funding if awarded, and approval of contracts, positions, and other
expenditures associated with the grants as outline in the proposed budget; second by
Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

A. Strong Workforce Program K12 Pathway Coordinator Year 4 North Far North Regional
Consortium - Jacqueline White

B. STEAM Hub ASES - Science, Technology, Engineering, Art, and Mathematics
(STEAM Hub) for Expanded Learning Grant, Year 10 - Brent Malicote

C. Strong Workforce Program K12 Pathway Coordinator Year 5 Far North Regional
Consortium - Jacqueline White

D. Sacramento County Probation Reentry Program Grant - Jacqueline White

E. 21st Century Community Learning Center - Technical Assistance System of Support
for Expanded Learning Grant, Year 15 - Brent Malicote

F. California State Preschool Program Quality Rating and Improvement System (CSPP) -
Brent Malicote

G. After School Education and Safety Program - Technical Assistance System of Support
for Expanded Learning Grant, Year 13 - Brent Malicote

H. Placer County Reentry Program (PREP) Grant - Jacqueline White

10. New Business – Other




 08.15.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            5
A. NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING and Adoption of Resolution No. 23-10 - Determination
of Textbooks and/or Instructional Materials Sufficiency Pursuant to Education Code
Section 60119 for Juvenile Court Schools - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White presented the Adoption of Resolution No. 23-
10 - Determination of Textbooks and/or Instructional Materials Sufficiency Pursuant to
Education Code Section 60119 for Juvenile Court Schools

A Public Hearing was opened at 7:37 p.m.

There were no public comments.

The Public Hearing was closed at 7:38 p.m.

Motion by Trustee Brown to adopt Resolution No. 23-10 - Determination of Textbooks
and/or Instructional Materials Sufficiency Pursuant to Education Code Section 60119 for
Juvenile Court Schools; second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

B. Board Report - Gary K. Hart Resiliency Scholarship Annual Report - Shanine Coats

Director of Strategic Initiatives, Shanine Coats, presented the Gary K. Hart (GKH)
Resiliency Scholarship Annual Report. Cal-SOAP Director Guadalupe Delgado reported
on the mentor program through which scholarship recipients receive additional support.
Xanthi Soriano, Communications Executive Director reported on the scholarship renewal
program and fundraising.

Cary Hart spoke via Zoom and expressed her appreciation for the scholarship program.

A public comment was made by Pam Haynes, Member of Los Rios Community College
District Board of Trustees and GKH Scholarship Committee member.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Davis expressed her wishes for everyone to have a great start to the school year
and looks forward to providing her support.

Trustee Brown commented that he is thankful that the Board works together well with the
Superintendent and SCOE, is willing to speak their mind, and agrees and disagrees at
times and continues to work together.

Trustee Fong remarked on comments made during the Visitor Presentations, including
expressing his support for the Miracle University program and requesting clarification
about statements made by the employee organization.


 08.15.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           6
Trustee Corona Sabeniano reported that Heredia-Arriaga, the Natomas Unified School
District's first dual immersion school had opened a couple of weeks ago.

Trustee Keefer stated that he appreciated the August 11 Employee Recognition Day
activities and expressed his sincere appreciation for SCOE staff and Superintendent
Gordon.

Trustee Ahola shared an optimistic closure from The Journey Onward from 916 Ink.

B. Board President

President Lefkovitz shared her excitement about schools being open. She commented
that she attended a listening session at El Centro Jr./Sr. High School which was well
facilitated. She heard students at the session express a desire for more life and career
preparation, more CTE options, arts, and college classes including classes from 4-year
programs. President Lefkovitz also shared information about the Literacy Summit by the
Sacramento Literacy Foundation taking place at the end of September.

C. Committees

No committee reports.

12. Items for Distribution

A. August/September Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. September 5, 2023

14. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

The meeting was adjourned at 8:29 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:



 08.15.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            7
