                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   l       I

                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (91 6) 859-3702

~ud'
ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief                    ADOPTED
                 ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                              BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                      SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                               Thursday, February 13, 2025
                               Held at the following locations:
                           10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                      Mather, California
                                               &
                                     Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:01 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
  Clark, Jones, Rice, Saylors, Stark, Webber, and Wood . Board members absent: Costa and
  Goold . Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg .

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  One (1) public comment was received .

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Jones seconded by Clark and carried unanimously by members present to
  adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.     Action Summary Minutes
         Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
         of January 23, 2025 .
         Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.     Parking Lot Lease - 7629 Greenback Lane
         Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to negotiate and execute a
         lease agreement materially similar to the attached.
         Action: Approved.

  PRESENTATION ITEMS

  1.     District Policies 2024 Year End Review
         (Chief Human Resources Officer Melisa Maddux)
         Recommendation: Receive presentation.
         Action: Presentation received .
2.    Measure O General Obligation Bond Management Plan
      (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation.
      Action: Presentation received.

ACTION ITEMS

1.    Formation of an Ad Hoc Committee to consider the qualifications and selection
      criteria for members of the Measure O Citizens' Oversight Committee.
      (President Wood)
      Recommendation: Renominate three Board Members to an Ad Hoc Committee to
      consider the qualification and selection criteria for members of the Measure O Citizens'
      Oversight Committee and report back recommendations to the Board at the April 10, 2025
      Board meeting or soon thereafter.
      Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by
      members present to appoint Directors Jones, Saylors and Stark to an Ad Hoc
      Committee to consider the qualification and selection criteria for members of the
      Measure O Citizens' Oversight Committee and report back recommendations to the
      Board at the April 10, 2025 Board meeting or soon thereafter.

2.    Adopt Resolution - Contract Award - Municipal Advisory Services
      (CFO Dave O'Toole)
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the award of RFP 24-04 Municipal
      Advisory Services to KNN Public Finance, LLC and authorize the Fire Chief or his
      designee to execute and administer a professional service agreement to provide municipal
      advisory services for a five-year period , with an option to renew for five additional one-year
      periods.
      Action: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-004 approving the award of RFP 24-04
      Municipal Advisory Services to KNN Public Finance, LLC and authorized the Fire Chief
      or his designee to execute and administer a professional service agreement to provide
      municipal advisory services for a five-year period, with an option to renew for five
      additional one-year periods.

3.    Memorandum of Understanding with County of Sacramento for Investment of
      Surplus Funds
      (CFO Dave O'Toole)
      Recommendation: Adopt the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) authorizing the
      Chief Financial Officer to invest funds in the Special Project Fund outside of the County
      Treasury.
      Action: Moved by Director Webber, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by
      members present adopting the MOU authorizing the CFO to invest funds in the Special
      Project Fund outside of the County Treasury.

4.    Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement - Fire Investigator II Steven
      Johnson
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
      finding Fire Investigator Johnson has suffered job related injuries incapacitating him for the
      performance of duties as a Fire Investigator II and direct staff to continue working with Fire
      Investigator Johnson through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
      Action: None, item to be voted on after discussion in Closed Session.


2.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 2 of7
5.        Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement- Captain Andrew Whaley
          Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
          finding Captain Whaley has suffered job related injuries incapacitating him for the
          performance of duties as Captain, and direct staff to continue working with Captain Whaley
          through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
          Action: None, item to be voted on after discussion in Closed Session.

REPORTS

1.       PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Wood)

          No Report

2.       FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -       (Chief House)

Good evening, President Wood, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public.

Public Comment Follow-Up: Sailor Bar

Sacramento County's Fire Fuel Reduction (FFR) team assessed the area at Sailor Bar and
confirmed that fuel reduction is needed. They plan to access the site via Fire Road 2, with
work beginning mid-February and completion expected by May 2025.

Updates & Acknowledgments
  • NFPA Technical Committee: Fleet Manager Shea Pursell has been selected as
     Chair of an NFPA Technical Committee within NFPA 1910, with full Executive Team
     support.

     •    Metro Fire Citizens Academy: Our inaugural Citizens Academy launched on
          February 5, offering participants hands-on insight into our all-hazard emergency
          response. We had session number 2 last evening. Special thanks to BC Bryan Barthel,
          April West and all involved for coordinating this tremendous effort!

     •    Community Engagement: On February 7, Chief Wilbourn and I joined Folsom-
          Cordova School District leaders and city officials for the No Child Eats Alone campaign
          at Cordova Meadows. We were honored to take part in this impactful event and
          look forward to future opportunities to connect with and support our younger
          community.

     •    Fill the Boot 2025: Over the four-day event, $185,220 was raised for the Firefighters
          Burn Institute. During the Chief's Challenge, approximately $44,000 was collected,
          with Chief Prete, Sacramento County Airport Fire, securing the win. Thank you to all
          who participated and contributed!

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

Shift Commander Spotlight

Deputy Chief Mitchell brought up C Shift Commander Jon Rudnicki who introduced Battalion
Chief Mike Slone (B13) who provided a member spotlight of Harry Belt. Harry Belt is a long-
standing CERT member who is retiring from the program after 15 years. Mr. Belt is an EMT,


 2.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                     Page 3 of 7
medical lead and the trainer for "stop the bleed", FEMA certified instructor for CERT basic
class, worked on our CERT severe weather team and was instrumental in getting the
firefighter rehab program together. He will be moving out of state and he will be greatly
missed and we wish him the best of luck.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT

No Report

SUPPORT SERIVES - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

It is great to stand before you once again. Since my return this week, I have engaged with
several division managers within Support Services to assess our current status to maintain
our strategic direction moving forward. I aim to conclude these meetings by early next week
to provide effective support, guidance, and direction when appropriate.

I am pleased to report that the leadership demonstrated by our Division Managers has been
marked with positivity, productivity, and unwavering dedication during my absence; for this, I
am profoundly grateful.

In light of our ongoing discussions, I would like to share a few updates from the Support
Services Branch.

Facilities:
We recently updated a bathroom at the arson building located at 3000 Fulton Ave., receiving
positive feedback from the crews. The station privacy project has entered year three, with
Station 51 nearing completion , which I look forward to reviewing this week. Additionally,
Station 105's roof has been successfully repaired following water intrusion and dry rot
identification.

Fleet:
Over the past few months, five new ambulances have been received , outfitted, and placed
into service, with two additional ambulances and four squads expected in April. We have also
acquired a new arson vehicle, with parts for its up-fit arriving shortly.

CRRD:
On the arson front, I would like to invite Out of Class Fire Marshal Chief Nygren to provide updates
on recent activities from our Fire Investigations Bureau. Over the last six weeks, they have
conducted 39 origin and cause investigations, out of that 24 were considered incendiary and four
we were able to get an arrest on. In addition, there are two cases open that will have additional
charges added for fire causes. Amazing work from our investigations team, Alex Morton, Jeff
Sergeant, out of class investigator Christa Aney and our new investigator Ryan Davis, who started
January 2nd . We appreciate everything they do.

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
   In place of Sean Scollard, 522 President Trevor Jamison spoke on the importance of
   Measure O and the trust placed on the agency by the community. We've been partners in
   this, the advocacy that we were able to spin up on the labor side was second to none.
   Many people commented about our ability to highlight what we can do and what we're
   going to do and use the 522 logo, Sacramento Area Firefighters, to be the advocates to
2.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 4 of 7
     the community. It's important that as we were a stakeholder in advocating for Measure 0,
     I do not want to get left out moving forward. I want to make sure that are men and women
     on the labor side are consulted and asked about what we think is right before a final
     decision is made. We want to continue to be part of the solution and make it better for our
     members.

     Andy Whaley, thank you for always lending a hand and have a great retirement.

4.      COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
        All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
        10545 Annstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

        A.      Executive Committee - (President Goold)

                 No Report

        B.      Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
                The last meeting was cancelled. The next meeting will take place at Metro Fire
                Headquarters on February 25, 2025, at 9:00 AM.

        C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)

                 No Report

        D.       Policy Committee - (Director Clark)

                 Met tonight on one administrative policy, discipline policy, and reviewed for
                 notification purposes only.

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Rice I've spent quite a bit time in Los Angeles doing some relief work and legislative
work but I want to acknowledge all California Firefighters. It's been frustrating to me that the
narrative in the press is on the building losses and of the buildings saved and independent
action of private firefighters. I believe that the narrative should be that California Firefighters,
Los Angeles City and County, Pasadena, Sierra Madre, Burbank, Glendale and all those
departments there were first in and then the mutual aid companies that came in after and we
only lost 27 people and that is extremely tragic. The men and women of the first served rose
that day and they are the reason that those numbers are not in the thousands. Could you
imagine if we were talking about 17,000 souls lost as opposed to 17,00 buildings. Nobody
does it like California Firefighters, your training and commitment to your communities is
second to none.

Director Clark thanked the men and women of CERT and Godspeed to Harry Belt on your
retirement. Welcome back to DC Wagaman.

Director Webber thanked the men and women of CERT and congratulated Harry Belt on his
retirement. To Andy Whaley I had the privilege of working with Andy for many, many years.
He was an excellent Firefighter and very competent. Andy has always done the right thing
and congratulations on your retirement.

Director Wood echoed the sentiments of his fellow Directors. I did get a chance to attend the
Citizens Academy yesterday and the presentations were great and the questions that were
2.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                         Page 5 of 7
asked were amazing. It was well attended and people were involved and were engaged.
Chief Barthel and April West, you both did a great job and I hope this continues on into the
future. The Firefighters Burn Institute "Fill the Boot for Burns" drive will great despite the rain .
Chief House, thanks for all your participation as well as Chief Mitchell and Chief Fiorica. I
saw a lot of our members; we were well represented. Having the helicopter there was
outstanding and the kids enjoyed being able to climb through it and meet the pilots. Thank
you to everyone that came out to support the Firefighters Burn Institute.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 7: 16 p.m. on the following matters:

1. PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (A) -TWO (2)
   MATTERS OF WORKERS COMPENSATION SETTLEMENT AUTHORITY.

   1.    Jason Cahill and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Claim# 4A2305MHPDS0001 - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
         Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer
         Action: Moved by Webber, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by
         members present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a
         settlement of the matter.

   2.    Eric Haus and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Claim# 4A2306VDWW0-0001, - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
         Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer
         Action: Moved by Clark, seconded by Jones, and carried unanimously by members
         present to give authority to its third-party administrator to conclude a settlement of the
         matter.

2. PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (A) - TWO (2)
   MATTERS OF INDUSTRIAL DISABILITY RETIREMENT.

    1.   Steven Johnson and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Claim #SMDP - 549755 - Industrial Disability Retirement
         Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer

   2.    Andrew Whaley and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Claim # 4A2301 JCRWJ0001 - Industrial Disability Retirement
         Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened to open session at 7:37 p.m. General Counsel John Lavra reported
the Board met in closed session on four matters. 1. Workers Compensation claim of Jason
Cahill, the Board voted unanimously to give authority to it's third-party administrator to
effectuate a settlement of that workers compensation claim . 2 .. Workers Compensation
claim of Eric Haus, the Board voted unanimously to give authority to its third-party
administrator to effectuate a settlement of that workers compensation claim. 3. Industrial
Disability Retirement of Steven Johnson; no reportable action was taken in closed session
and will proceed in open session now. 4 .. Industrial Disability Retirement of Andrew Whaley;
no reportable action was taken in closed session and will proceed in open session now.



2.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                        Page 6 of 7
ACTION ITEMS CONTINUED TO AFTER CLOSED SESSION:

4.    Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement- Fire Investigator II Steven
      Johnson
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
      finding Fire Investigator Johnson has suffered job related injuries incapacitating him for the
      performance of duties as a Fire Investigator II and direct staff to continue working with Fire
      Investigator Johnson through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
      Action: Moved by Director Stark, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-005.

5.    Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement - Captain Andrew Whaley
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a Resolution
      finding Captain Whaley has suffered job related injuries incapacitating him for the
      performance of duties as Captain, and direct staff to continue working with Captain Whaley
      through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
      Action: Moved by Director Rice seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-006.

To view the video of the meeting , please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2025-02-13-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA


ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 7:40 p.m.



Ted Wood, President
                                                    /2}.J-/ w.J--
                                                    Robert Webber, Secretary



~~~
  CMG
MarnRittburg ,
Board Clerk




2.13.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                    Page 7 of 7
