       1           I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   ~u,~                 10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700

  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA

                                            Thursday, February 13, 2025, - 6:00 PM
Ted Wood
                                            Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                   10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4
                                                 Board Room - Second Floor
John Costa                                            Mather, California
Board Vice President                                          &
Division 9
                                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                   Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                     Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                   if Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member            https://us06web.zoom .us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ1 Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1 VWZz09
Division 1


Grant Goold
Board Member
                       The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D'Elman Clark          Application, please click on the link above.
Board Member
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member           accommodations:
Division 8
                                                                 Marni Rittburg
                                                                   Board Clerk
                                                                 (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittbu rg. marn i@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2025


►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro14Iive.saccounty.gov. Today's meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
February 17, 2025 and again at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, February 19, 2025, on Metro
Cable Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand
at you tube.comlmetrocable 14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers' comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                    Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                              7
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of January 23, 2025.

2.     Parking Lot Lease - 7629 Greenback Lane                                      12
       Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to negotiate and execute
       a lease agreement materially similar to the attached.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                            THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2025



PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.   District Policies 2024 Year End Review                                                                             17
     (Chief Human Resources Officer Melisa Maddux)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation.

2.   Measure O General Obligation Bond Management Plan                                                                  26
     (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation.

ACTION ITEMS:

1.   Formation of an Ad Hoc Committee to consider the qualifications and selection **
     criteria for members of the Measure O Citizens' Oversight Committee.
     (President Wood)
     Recommendation: Renominate three Board Members to an Ad Hoc Committee to
     consider the qualification and selection criteria for members of the Measure 0
     Citizens' Oversight Committee and report back recommendations to the Board at the
     April 10, 2025 Board meeting or soon thereafter.

2.   Adopt Resolution - Contract Award - Municipal Advisory Services                      41
     (CFO Dave O'Toole)
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the award of RFP 24-04 Municipal
     Advisory Services to KNN Public Finance, LLC and authorize the Fire Chief or his
     designee to execute and administer a professional service agreement to provide
     municipal advisory services for a five-year period, with an option to renew for five
     additional one-year periods.

3.   Memorandum of Understanding with County of Sacramento for Investment                   61
     of Surplus Funds
     (CFO Dave O'Toole)
     Recommendation: Adopt the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) authorizing
     the Chief Financial Officer to invest funds in the Special Project Fund outside of the
     County Treasury.

4.   Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement - Fire Investigator II         **
     Steven Johnson
     Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a
     Resolution finding Fire Investigator Johnson has suffered job related injuries
     incapacitating him for the performance of duties as a Fire Investigator II and direct
     staff to continue working with Fire Investigator Johnson through his Industrial
     Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                            THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2025


4.   Adopt Resolution - Industrial Disability Retirement- Captain Andrew Whaley **
     Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a
     Resolution finding Captain Whaley has suffered job related injuries incapacitating
     him for the performance of duties as Captain, and direct staff to continue working
     with Captain Whaley through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with
     CalPERS.

REPORTS:

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT -                (President Wood)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT -              (Chief House)

            OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
            ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - No Report
            SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - No Report

3.   SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - Captain Sean Scollard, Local
     522 Vice President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

     A.     Executive Committee - (President Wood)
            Next Meeting: TBD

     B.     Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
            Next Meeting: March 11, 2025 at 9:00 AM

     C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Jones)
            Next Meeting: February 27, 2025 at 5:30 PM

     D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
            Next Meeting: March 13, 2025 at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS
                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2025



CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matters:

1. PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (A) -TWO
   (2) MATTERS OF WORKERS COMPENSATION SETTLEMENT AUTHORITY.

    1.   Jason Cahill and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Claim# 4A2305MHPDS0001 - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
         Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer

    2.   Eric Haus and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Claim # 4A2306VDWW0-0001, - Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
         Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer

2. PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (A) -
   TWO (2) MATTERS OF INDUSTRIAL DISABILITY RETIREMENT.

    1.   Steven Johnson and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Claim #SMDP - 549755 - Industrial Disability Retirement
         Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer

    2.   Andrew Whaley and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Claim# 4A2301JCRWJ0001 - Industrial Disability Retirement
         Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

    •    Regular Board Meeting - February 27, 2025 at 6:00 PM

Posted on February 6, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.



M
~~/kfft~
Clerk of the Board

** No written report
'Im Separate Attachment
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2025


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305.
Notification at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable
arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
                 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   1       I
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702
lfi,:J~
ADAM A. HOUSE
   Fire Chief    ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                              BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                      SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                Thursday, January 23, 2025
                               Held at the following locations:
                           10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                      Mather, California
                                               &
                                     Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:01 pm by President Wood. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Goold, Saylors, Stark, Webber, and Wood. Board members absent: Jones and
  Rice. Staff present: Chief House and Board Clerk Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  One (1) public comment was received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Moved by Director Goold seconded by Webber and carried unanimously by members present
  to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.     Action Summary Minutes
         Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
         of January 9, 2025.
         Action: Adopted the Action Summary Minutes.

  2.    2025 Annual Investment Policy for Pooled Funds
        Recommendation: Receive and ratify the 2025 Annual Investment Policy for
        Sacramento County Pooled Investment Fund.
        Action: Approved the annual investment policy.

  3.    . Adopt Resolution - Surplus Vehicle Designation
          Recommendation: Adopt Resolution designating the vehicles listed as surplus.
          Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-001.

  4.    Purchase Approval - Four (4) BME Type Ill Engines
        Recommendation: Approve the purchase of four (4) BME Type Ill Engines from
        Golden State Fire Apparatus, Inc. utilizing HGACBuy contract number FS12-23.
        Action: Approved the purchase.



                                                                                                           P7
5.    Adopt Resolution - Designation of Authorized Agents for Disaster
      Assistance Funding
      Recommendation: Adopt Resolution designating Authorized Agents for seeking and or
      managing disaster assistance funding.
      Action: Adopted Resolution 2025-002.

6.    Nomination of Captain Steve Mayer for Honorary Metro Fire Member
      Recommendation: Approve the nomination of Captain Mayer.
      Action: Approved the nomination.

PRESENTATION ITEMS

1.    •FY 2023/24 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR), Accompanying
       Audit Reports, and GFOA Certificate of Achievement
       (CFO Dave O' Toole, and Ahmed Badawi, CPA)
       Recommendation: Receive presentation and accept the reports.
       Action: Presentation received and reports accepted.

2.    FY 2023/24 Community Annual Report (CAR) and FY 2022/23 GFOA Popular
      Annual Financial Reporting Award
      (CFO Dave O' Toole)
      Recommendation: Accept the Community Annual Report.
      Action: Presentation received and report accepted.

ACTION ITEMS

1.    Adopt Resolution - California Senate Bill 1205 Mandatory Inspections & Compliance
      Reporting
      (Deputy Fire Marshal Amy Nygren)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation and adopt the Resolution acknowledging
      receipt of the annual report regarding the inspection of public and private schools and
      certain residential occupancies for the calendar year 2024.
      Action: Moved by Director Clark, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by
      members present to adopt Resolution 2025-003 acknowledging receipt of a report
      made by the Fire Marshal of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District regarding the
      inspection of certain occupancies required to perform annual inspections in such
      occupancies pursuant to section 13146.2 and 13146.3 of the California Health And
      Safety Code.

2.    Formation of an Ad Hoc Committee to consider the qualifications and selection
      criteria for members of the Measure O Citizens' Oversight Committee.
      (President Wood)
      Recommendation: Appoint three Board Members to an Ad Hoc Committee to consider
      the qualification and selection criteria for members of the Measure O Citizens' Oversight
      Committee and report back recommendations to the Board at the April 10, 2025 Board
      meeting .
      Action: Moved by Director Costa, seconded by Clark, and carried unanimously by
      members present to appoint Directors Jones, Saylors and Webber to an Ad Hoc
      Committee to consider the qualification and selection criteria for members of the
      Measure O Citizens' Oversight Committee and report back recommendations to the
      Board at the April 10, 2025 Board meeting.


                                                                              Page 2 of 5
                                                                                             PB
1.23.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
REPORTS

1.    PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Goold)

      None

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT- (Chief House)

Good evening, President Wood, Directors, Colleagues, and Members of the Public.

I want to recognize Chief Law again, her last day is tomorrow and she will be missed. Chief
House thanked Chief Law for everything she has done for the District and the community.

I want to welcome home our crews who were down assisting with the fires in Los Angeles,
great job and you are true professionals.

I also want to share that today we have Truck 23 and Engine 29 covering Stockton Fire
Station 7 to assist their members on the loss of Firefighter Robert "Bobby" Van Ruiten who
passed away off duty on January 3, 2025. I would like to request that we take a moment of
silence at the end of the meeting.

OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

Shift Commander Spotlight

Deputy Chief Mitchell brought up AC Greene to the podium who introduced Captain
Covington from E105 A-Shift. Captain Covington discussed a large grass fire incident in
summer 2024, highlighting the actions of Air Operations and coordination for a sustained fire
attack procedure. He also discussed the role of the Engineer and Firefighter at Station 105
taking leadership roles while he was assigned to Air Operations for 6-7 months annually.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Johnson)
No Report

SUPPORT SERIVES - (Deputy Chief Bailey)
No Report

3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard, Local 522 Vice
   President)
     Captain Scollard thanked Chief House for the Nomination of Captain Steve Mayer for
     Honorary Metro Fire Member and thanked the Board for approving the nomination. We
     have 19 MMP's and 6 Firefighters that will be attending the CAL-JAC Paramedic
     Academy program which will give us 25 additional Paramedics in the District. We had a
     productive Workers Comp Ad Hoc meeting this afternoon and we are moving in the right
     direction.




                                                                                                pg
1.23.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                 Page 3 of 5
4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
      10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

      A.      Executive Committee - (President Goold)

               No Report

      8.      Communications Center JPA - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
               SRFECC convened on January 14, 2025. There is nothing to report. The next
               board meeting will take place at Metro Fire Headquarters on January 28, 2025,
               at 9:00 AM.

      C.       Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Clark)
               Met tonight and received a presentation of the Bimonthly Fiscal Report through
               October 31, 2024 from CFO Dave O'Toole.

      D.       Policy Committee - (Director Costa)

               No Report

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Clark thanked the men and women of Metro Fire for their professionalism and the
crews that went to Southern California to help people in need. Also, Godspeed to Chief Law
on her new assignment.

Director Stark echoed the sentiments of Director Clark.

Director Goold said Chief Law leaving is a major loss for this organization. You've done so
much good for this organization from patient care to leadership. I want to thank any
individual within our organization who interacts with the public on a daily basis. Also, I want
to thank our Finance department, you make us· proud how you monitor and control the
finances of the District.

Director Webber stated that Chief Law has been very impactful for this organization and
thank you for everything that you have done and best wishes to you.

Director Wood echoed the sentiments of his fellow Directors. The Firefighters Burn Institute
"Fill the Boot for Burns" drive will take place from February 5 - 8th in Citrus Heights, Sunrise
Mall area. All of our men and women including Firefighters and other personnel that can get
out there and help, please sign up with the Burn Institute. Thank you to PIO Parker Wilbourn,
you and your team continue to do great work getting the word out on social media with what
our crews are doing in Los Angeles.

Observed a moment of silence for Stockton Firefighter Robert "Bobby" Van Ruiten.

CLOSED SESSION:
The Board recessed to closed session at 7:07 p.m. on the following matter:

1.    Public Employee Performance Evaluation: Fire Chief
      Pursuant to Government Code Sections 54957(b)(1) and 54954.S(e)

                                                                                                     Page 4 of 5
                                                                                                                   P10
1.23.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

The Board reconvened to open session at 8:58 p.m. President Wood reported the Board met
in closed session on public employee performance evaluation of the Fire Chief, there was no
reportable action taken.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:

https://metrofire.ca.gov/2025-01-23-board-meeting

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA


ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 8:59 p.m.



Ted Wood, President                                 Robert Webber, Secretary



Marni Rittburg, CMC
Board Clerk




                                                                               Page 5 of 5
                                                                                              P11
1.23.2025 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 L Mather, CA 95655 L Phone (916) 859-4300 L Fax (916) 859-3702


ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire Chief

     DATE:           February 13, 2025
     TO:             Board of Directors
     SUBJECT:        Parking Lot Lease - 7629 Greenback Lane

                                                TOPIC
     Request to approve the execution of a lease agreement to utilize a parking area on a property
     adjacent to Station 21 to support Academy 24-2.

                                             BACKGROUND
     The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's (District) Board of Directors has previously approved
     the execution of short-term leases of real property adjacent to Fire Station 21 to accommodate
     the additional parking needs for academies on an as-needed basis. There are currently no leases
     in effect.

                                            DISCUSSION
     Academies (MMP and firefighter) are scheduled from February-August of 2025. In order to meet
     the parking needs of these academies, staff reached out to the owner of the adjacent property
     and negotiated a new lease agreement under the same terms as the previous leases.

     Lease Details:
           Term:                                  Seven (7) Months (February - August, 2025)
           Monthly Rent:                          $1,500.00
           Security Deposit:                      $1,500.00 (refundable)

                                             FISCAL IMPACT
     The cost of the lease will be $10 ,500 with an initial security deposit of $1,500 to be refunded at
     term expiration. These costs will be paid out of the Training Division budget.

                                       RECOMMENDATION
     Staff recommends the Board of Directors authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to negotiate
     and execute a lease agreement materially similar to the attached.

     Suqmitted by:


     ~~
     Erin Castleberry
     Administrative Analyst

     ATTACHMENT:
     Attachment 1: Parking Lot Lease




                                   Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties

                                                                                                              P12
                                           Parking Lot Lease

        THIS LEASE AGREEMENT ("Lease") is dated this 1st day ofFebruaty, 2025, by and between
Gabor and Octavia Kovac ("Lessor"), and Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, an autonomous Special
District established under California Health and Safety Code Section 13800 ("Lessee").

In consideration of the mutual covenants in this Lease, Lessor and Lessee agree as follows.

        1.   The Premises. Lessor leases to Lessee, and Lessee takes from Lessor, the following property
located in Citrus Heights, California:

A 17,651 square foot vacant lot located at 7629 Greenback Lane (APN# 243-0150-012- 0000) as shown
on the attached Exhibit A ("Premises").

        2.    Term. The term of this Lease ("Term") shall commence upon February 1, 2025 and run for
an initial term through August 31, 2025, unless terminated earlier in accordance with this Lease.

        3.  Use. Lessee shall use the Premises as a parking lot. Lessee shall not use or allow others to
use the Premises for any other purpose without the prior written consent of Lessor, which consent will not
be unreasonably withheld.

       4.   Rent. Effective upon the commencement of the Lease, Lessee shall pay Lessor rent in the
amount of fifteen hundred dollars per month ($1,500/month), payable on the fifteenth (15th) day of the
following month in which the parking spaces were used.

       5.   Security Deposit. Lessee shall pay Lessor a refundable deposit of $1,500.00 for use of the
Premises. The deposit shall be returned to Lessee upon the termination of the Lease.

        6.   Maintenance and Repair. Lessor is solely responsible for all maintenance and repair of the
Premises and shall keep the Premises in a neat and safe condition. Lessor and Lessee shall not store or
release any hazardous or toxic substances of any kind at the Premises. Lessor shall maintain the Premises
in compliance with all laws, ordinances, or regulations governing the Premises.

      7.    Assumption of Risk. Parking is solely at the risk of the vehicle owner. Lessor is not
assuming any risk. Any security, if necessary, is to be provided by Lessee.

        8.    Condition. Lessee has had the opportunity to inspect the Premises prior to signing this Lease
and accepts the Premises in AS IS condition without any representation from Lessor as to its condition or
suitability for Lessee's intended use. If a condition subsequently arises, including a hidden defect, which
substantially interferes with Lessee's use ofthe Premises, Lessee may terminate the Lease by providing 30-
days written notice to Lessor.

       9.    Alterations. Lessee shall not make any alterations, additions, or improvements to the
Premises without first obtaining the written consent of Lessor, which consent will not be unreasonably
withheld.




                                                                                                              P13
        10.    Liability; Indemnification. Each party agrees that they shall indemnify, defend and hold
the other party and its governing body, officers, agents and employees, harmless from any and all claims,
damages, losses, causes of action and demands, including reasonable attorneys' fees and costs, incurred
in connection with or in any manner arising out of the indemnifying party's performance of this
Agreement. The indemnifying party, at the indemnifying patty's own expense and risk shall defend any
and all actions, suits, or other legal proceedings that may be brought or instituted against the other party,
the members of its governing body, officers, agents, and employees for any such claims, damages, losses,
demands, liabilities, costs or expenses incurred in connection with or in any manner arising out of the
indemnifying party's performance of this Agreement. The indemnifying party shall not be liable for
damage or injury occasioned by the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the non-indemnifying party
and its officers, agents, or employees. It is the intention of the parties that where comparative fault is
determined to have been contributory, principles of comparative fault will be followed and each patty
shall bear the proportionate cost of any damage attributable to the fault of that party, its elected and
appointed officials, officers, directors, employees, representatives, agents, subcontractors, and volunteers.
These indemnification provisions shall survive the termination of the Lease.

         11. Insurance. Lessee shall maintain at all times commercial general liability insurance
 insuring Lessor and Lessee against all claims or demands for personal injuries to or death of any person,
 and damage to or destruction or loss of property, that may be claimed to have occurred on the Premises as
 a result of Lessee's use thereof. The policies shall cover such risks and be in such amounts as Lessor
 from time to time may reasonably request, but in any event with a combined single limit for bodily injury
 and property damage per occurrence of not less than Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000.00).

          Lessee's insurance shall be issued by an insurer licensed to do business in the State of California
  and shall contain a waiver of subrogation endorsement. Lessee shall deliver to Lessor ce1tificates
  of such insurance coverage and evidence of payment of all premiums promptly upon demand by Lessor,
  which certificates shall show Lessor as an additional insured and shall provide that no cancellation,
  reduction in amount, or material change in coverage shall be effective until at least thirty (30) days after
  receipt of written notice to Lessor.

        12. Assignment; Sublease. Lessee may assign this Lease and Lessee may sublease the
 Premises in whole or in part with Lessor's written approval which shall not be umeasonably withheld.

         13. Lessor's Right of Access. Lessor and Lessor's employees or agents, shall have the right
 to enter the Premises in a reasonable manner upon reasonable advance notice to Lessee to inspect the
 Premises or to conduct surveys, testing, or studies in connection with any engineering, design, financing,
 or permitting activities related to potential development of the Premises; provided, however, that no notice
 will be required in emergency circumstances where it is impractical to provide Lessee with advance
 notice. Lessor shall use reasonable effo1ts to minimize any disruption of Lessee's activities.

         14.   Default. Each of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:

               a.      Lessee fails to maintain at all times the insurance required by this Lease.
               b.      Lessee fails to comply with any agreement or requirement in this Lease for a
                       period of thirty (30) days after notice from Lessor.


          If an Event of Default has occurred and continues, Lessor may terminate Lessee's rights to the
  use the Premises and pursue any other remedies available under California law.



                                                                                                                 P14
        15. Termination. Either party may terminate the Lease for cause by providing the other party
not less than ninety (90) days' notice. On the expiration of the Term, or any earlier termination of this
Lease, Lessee shall: (a) immediately vacate the Premises; (b) repair all damage to the Premises caused by
Lessee's removal of its equipment and property from the Premises; and (c) restore the Premises to the
same condition that existed at the commencement of the Term, reasonable wear and tear excepted.

        16. Entire Agreement, Applicable Law. This Lease contains the entire agreement of the
parties with respect to the leasing of the Premises and any supplements or amendments to the agreement
must be in writing and signed by both parties to be enforceable. This Lease shall be governed by and
interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of California.

      17. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, Lessor shall have the right to terminate this
agreement, for no cause whatsoever, by giving 30 days' notice in writing.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Lessor and the Lessee have caused this Lease to be
 executed by their duly authorized agents on the dates set forth below.


 Lessee:                                              Lessor:
 Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District                Gabor and Octavia Kovac

                                                      By:
 By:_ __ _ _ __ _ _ __


                                                       By:
 Date:- - -- - -- - -- - - -


                                                       Date:- - - - - -- -- - - - -




                                                                                                            P15
EXHIBIT A




            P16
P20
P22
P23
P25
                          (0
                          N
                          a..




    Measure O
General Obligation Bond
   Management Plan


     February 13, 2025
                           r-
                           N
                           a..




 Purpose of Bond Program
    Management Plan


Program Management Team



     Key Components



     Implementation
                                                                             ex:,
                                                                             CN
                                                                             a..

...#~,~~~%
  [ST
     -~
      -
      I)
         .•··•    ".                  MEAS UR EO
           ..
            ~



        F'IR:E:




                               Community Investment

                                        •   Fire station construction,
                       $415 Million
                                            expansion & improvements

                                        •   Vehicle & equipment
                                            acquisition & replacement

                                        •   Training facility construction
                                            & expansion
                                                                     CD
                                                                     CN
 i\\~O METHoA                                                        c..

~~~~~~~
 ,:,
   ~ ,.
       ..
        ~
             ..              MANAGEMENT PLAN
 • F'IR:E:




                                       MEASURE 0                 ~



                                       General Obligation Bond
             Purpose of the            Management Plan


             Management Plan



            How we intend to deliver
            on our promises to the     FEBRUARY 202S


            community.
                                                                  0
                                                                  ct)

 i\\10 MET,9oA                                                    c..


~~~f'~~~
       ..
        ~
                              MANAGEMENT PLAN
   FIR:E:




                    PLAN IS                  PLAN IS NOT

            Communication tool        Static document
            Sets expectations for     It will evolve as program
            program administration    is implemented

            Framework                 Guaranteed fix
            Shows coordination        Recognizes Measure 0
            across key components     will be utilized with
                                      other resources
P31
                                                                              N
                                                                              ct)
                                                                              c...




   Established for the purpose of ensuring that bond funds were spent in
accordance with the purpose outlined in the voter-approved ballot measure.


    Meet the Team

    Clerk of the Board (Lead)
    Facilitating the establishment and ongoing
                                                      wvia-t's Nex-Y?
    implementation of the oversight committee
                                                      Ad-~'Oc ~mvnittee
    Ad Hoc Committee                              pr-6?~Wtit1,t.6Comm6\1d~~
                                                  ,.. •


    Developing recommended implementation plan
    for establishment of oversight committee

    Board of Directors
    Establishing oversight committee and
    appointing its members                             APR
                                                             ~
                                                                                                    C")
                                                                                                    C")

      ~\\10 MET.qoA                                                                                 a..
    ~~ 4"",,. ll,,.~0
...,#,.     ;:;.~ - . ~
         .
    £ST. !}
             ·-'"
                     ....
                     .. ,,
                             1:J:t•Jl:till•l-~ii1~t-mit•1~1~~1~'1:tiit•1~1
        FIRE:


          Eligible projects will be submitted, evaluated, prioritized and approved
              through the annual Capital Improvement Program (CIP} process.


             Meet the Team
             CIP Administrator (Lead)
             Managing annual CIP process
                                                                     wvi~-f'
                                                                        .   .
                                                                             s Nex-r?         .
                                                                        ~-:..'   '   ·'   '


             Division Managers                                  C:!? Comvnittee reView
             Identifying needs and submitting projects          ~KtA •r.al'tld~f1·:.o f proposetA
                                                                             projuts
             CIP Committee
             Ranking proposed projects and making a
             recommendation to the Executive Team

             Executive Team/Board of Directors
             Approving projects through adoption of the CIP
                                                                     MAR
                                                                                                 <::t"
                                                                                                 ct)

 \l-t\\'tO METf/oA                                                                               0...


~~1f'~:✓~ :•
                              FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
     F'IR:E:


   Issuing bonds requires compliance within a variety of legal, financial and
                           regulatory frameworks.


          Meet the Team
          Chief Financial Officer (Lead)
          Managing the bond issuance process and
          overseeing work of the municipal advisor and           Wltla-t's Nex+-?
          other consultants                               Assewn~lil'I~ #le co\'lsrAl-rtn1-t-
                                                              t 6 ~ffi,-:lJGl~~~,:.:-l?p~d .
          Municipal Advisor                                &or,t,Jsel tt\lld fl\vtd6f"Wri-t-er
          Planning, structuring, and preparing bond
          issuance, as well as post-issuance compliance

          Executive Team/Board of Directors
          Approving recommended bond issuance plan
          and issuing bonds
                                                                 MAR
                                                                                                            LO
                                                                                                            (")




                     ·~ INTERNAL & EXTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS
    ~\\\~O METfioA
                                                                                                            a..
 ~~,~ .... ~...~
~ ('. T. !}
         .           :o::
              ·•''
        F'IR:E:


                       Clear communication is essential for ensuring transparency and
                                accountability as Measure O is implemented.


              Meet the Team

              Director of Government Affairs (Lead)
              Managing internal and external
                                                                         Wlqaf's Nex-t-1
              communications plan
                                                                  "fi\lltdil,i\11(1 commlA\llitt\"tio\11S
              CORE Team                                             pla\1, ,i"1&1t-tt4i\ll_
                                                                                          , a mas-ter
              Developing communications framework and               .fr~m~worlcfpr pllA\11\lleiA
              implementing communications plan                           :b b*tt¥i~Hfls

               Bond Program Management Team
               Providing information on bond program
               activities                                                  FEB
                                                                                 (0
                                                                                 ct:)
                                                                                 a...




Quarter 1 (January - March)
Citizens' Oversight Committee
Ad hoc committee is appointed by the Board and develops
recommendation on the establishment and implementation of the Citizens'
Oversight Committee

Project Identification & Selection
Projects are submitted as part of the CIP process, evaluated and ranked by the
CIP Committee, and the draft CIP is prepared

Financial Management
Municipal advisor and other specialty consultants (bond counsel, underwriter)
are brought under contract by the District.

Internal & External Communications
Communications plan is developed that includes a master framework of
planned communications including intended message, target audience(s),
communication channel(s), timing, and methods of feedback.
                                                                                r-
                                                                                C")
                                                                                a..




Quarter 2 (April - June)

Citizens' Oversight Committee
Ad hoc committee brings recommended implementation plan to the
Board for consideration and approval

Project Identification & Selection
Recommended projects and financing plan for the CIP is reviewed by the
Executive Team and CIP is finalized and formally adopted by the Board.

Financial Management
Bond structure is finalized, bond issuance plan is approved by the Board, and
bonds are marketed and prepared for sale.
                                                                 CX)
                                                                 er:,
                                                                 a..




Quarter 3 (July - September)
Citizens' Oversight Committee
Application process for Citizens' Oversight Committee begins

Project Identification & Selection
Implementation of approved projects begins by project managers

Financial Management
Bond sale closes and proceeds are received by the District


Quarter 4 (October - December)
Citizens' Oversight Committee
Citizens' Oversight Committee is appointed by the Board
                                                                                        O')
                                                                                        Cl')

 ~~\\,o METf?oA                                                                         a..

~~1~~~~
    ...                       STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT
    FIRE




           Service Delivery             Capital Assets                Members

     Enhancing emergency                Maintaining &            Infrastructure that
     response capabilities           improving facilities,     supports member safety
                                    vehicles & equipment            & well-being




                      Fiscal responsibility        Building trust through
                    through efficient use of            transparent
                              funds                  communications
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           -=t"
                                                                                           a..




                                           ' -   - -- --.      _ _ _ __   _, ¥   _ _   _

                                                          /


                                                                                 ://




                                                                                       '
                                                       C,                 /        /
                                                       ·. ,.         /
                                                         · ----




                         Questions?

Erin Castleberry I 916.859.4160 I castleberry.erin@metrofire.ca.gov
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
 l          I

                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702

lfi-'
     DATE:            February 13, 2025

     TO:              Board of Directors

     SUBJECT:         Contract Award Recommendation - Municipal Advisory Services


                                                    TOPIC

     Staff requests that the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (District) Board of
     Directors (Board) approve a contract award to KNN Public Finance, LLC for financial
     advisor services as specified in Request for Proposals (RFP) 24-05: Municipal
     Advisory Services.

                                              BACKGROUND

     On November 5, 2024, voters approved Measure 0, authorizing the District to issue
     up to $415 million in General Obligation (GO) bonds for capital projects. The District
     plans to issue and commit GO bond proceeds over the next 10 years. The proceeds
     from the issuance and sale of the GO bonds may only be used for the construction,
     expansion, reconstruction, rehabilitation, replacement, furnishing and equipping of fire
     facilities; the acquisition or lease of real property for fire facilities; and the acquisition
     of fire and emergency medical vehicles, apparatus, and capital equipment.

     To ensure compliance with legal, regulatory, and fiduciary responsibilities,, the District
     determined that the services of a Municipal Advisor (MA) will be needed to assist in
     the implementation, planning, structuring, issuance, and post-issuance compliance of
     the GO bonds, and subsequently issued RFP 24-05, soliciting proposals from qualified
     MAs.

                                                DISCUSSION

     On December 19, 2024, the District issued RFP 24-05 to solicit proposals from
     qualified contractors to provide municipal advisory services. The District has not
     previously issued GO bonds or used the services of a municipal advisor for that
     purpose.

     The District received a total of five proposals in response to RFP 24-05. The proposals
     were independently evaluated and scored by an evaluation committee using the
     following criteria:

        •       Contractor Qualifications and Experience with Providing Services of Similar
                Size, Scope, and Complexity
        •       Staffing & Qualifications and Experience of the Proposed Program Team
        •       Approach & Methodology

                                   Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                                     P41
Page2



           •   Past Performance
           •   Fee Proposal

        KNN Public Finance, LLC was the highest scoring proposer. The firm was established
        as a limited liability company in 2016 and provides independent municipal advisor
        services to local public agencies across California.

                                           FISCAL IMPACT

        The cost of the contract will be approximately $60,000 per bond sale, with actual costs
        contingent upon certain reimbursable expenses. KNN Public Finance, LLC has proposed
        a fixed transaction fee of $40,000 for the first issuance of the authorization, plus up to
        $10,000 for advisory services related to the pre-transaction planning phase. Subsequent
        transaction fees will cost up to $45,000. It is estimated that there will be up to three
        subsequent issuances. Additional transaction fees related to planning, third-party
        information services, and reimbursable expenses would not exceed $10,000. The District
        anticipates this cost would be paid from Measure O bond proceeds.

                                         RECOMMENDATION

        Staff recommends that the Board adopt a resolution to approve the award of RFP 24-
        04: Municipal Advisory Services to KNN Public Finance, LLC and authorize the Fire
        Chief or his designee to execute and administer a professional service agreement to
        provide municipal advisory services for a five-year period, with an option to renew for
        five additional one-year periods.


        Submitted by:                                       Approved by:            ~

                                                               ~c7):
        Dave O'Toole                                        Adam House
        Chief Financial Officer                             Fire Chief




        ATTACHMENTS:
        Resolution
        Sample Agreement




                                  Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                     P42
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200, Mather, CA Phone (916) 859-4300 Fax (916) 859-3700



ADAM A. HOUSE
  Fire_ Chief

                               RESOLUTION NO. 2025-XXX

    A RESOLUTION OF THE SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
  APPROVING THE CONTRACT AWARD FOR MUNICIPAL ADVISORY SERVICES

         WHEREAS, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District") is a political
  subdivision of the State of California ("State") and is duly organized and existing pursuant to
  the State constitution and laws; and

           WHEREAS, on November 5, 2024, voters approved Measure 0, authorizing the
   District to issue up to $415 million in General Obligation (GO) bonds for capital projects; and

         WHEREAS, the District has determined that retaining the services of a municipal
  advisor is needed to assist in the implementation, planning, structing, issuance, and post-
  issuance compliance for GO bonds; and

         WHEREAS, the District desires to award a contract for the performance of these
  services to KNN Public Finance, LLC who was the highest scoring proposer following a
  Request for Proposals (RFP) process.

          NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the Sacramento
   Metropolitan Fire District does hereby approve a contract award to KNN Public Finance, LLC
   and authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to execute and administer a professional services
   agreement materially similar to the proposed agreement.

           PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 13th day of February 2025. I, MARNI
   RITTBURG, BOARD CLERK OF SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
   HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing Resolution was introduced and passed at a regular meeting
   of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board by the following roll call vote:

   AYES:
   NOES:
   ABSENT:
   ABSTAIN:
                                         SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT


                                         By: - -- - -- -- - - - - -- -
                                             President, Board of Directors

   ATTEST:


   Marni J. Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
   Clerk of the Board

                               Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                         P43
              SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT

This Agreement, is by and between the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ("District"),
and KNN Public Finance, LLC ("Contractor") who are hereinafter collectively referred to
as the "Parties". The Agreement will be effective upon final execution by all parties and
approval by the District's Board of Directors.

                                       RECITALS

WHEREAS, the District issued Request for Proposals (RFP) 24-05 which solicited written
proposals for Municipal Advisory Services (Services); and

WHEREAS, the District sought to award a contract for the Services based on the
evaluation of proposals received in response to RFP 24-05;

WHEREAS, the District desires the Services as more f41ly described in Exhibits A here
to, "Scope of Services," from Contractor; and

WHEREAS, Contractor is professionally qualified to provide suGt, Services and is willing
to provide them to District on the terms and conditions set forth herein;

NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follow;

1.     HEADINGS
       Headings herein are for convenienqe of reference only and shall in no way affect
       interpretati0n of the Agreement.

2.     EXHIBITS
       Exhibits A "Scope of Services" and Exhibit B "Payment Terms" are attached hereto
       and incorporated by reference.

3.    SCOPE OF SERVICES
      Contractor agrees· to perform all services described in Exhibit A, for payment
      pursuant to Exhibit B, and in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
      Agreement and those described in the District's RFP 24-05 Municipal Advisory
      Services, ircor"porated herein by reference.

      These documents, along with the Contractor's response to RFP 24-04, the entirety
      of this Agreement, and any other records or documents furnished by the District
      during the term of this Agreement shall constitute the Contract Documents.


4.    TERM
      This Agreement shall commence on the date it is executed by the Parties and
      approved by the District's Board of Directors and it shall continue in full force and

                                                                                Page 1 of 17

                                                                                               P44
      in effect for five years. This Agreement may be extended, subject to written notice
      of agreement from the Parties, for up to five additional twelve (12) month periods.
      Agreement terms and conditions will continue throughout any additional
      extensions. Terms and conditions, which relate to indemnification and other related
      matters, shall continue after the expiration of this Agreement.

5.    PAYMENT
      For service performed in accordance with the Agreement, payments shall be made
      to Contractor as provided in Exhibit B hereto.

6.     INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR
       No relationship of employer and employee is created by this Agreement; it being
       understood and agreed that Contractor is at all times an inclependent contractor,
       and can perform work for others. Neither Contractor nor Contractor's employees
       are an agent or employee of the District iri any capacity whatsoever and District
       shall not be liable in any manner for any acts or omissions by Contra9tbr or for any
       obligations or liabilities incurred by Contractor, Cqntractor's emplpyees, or agents.

       Contractor shall have no claim under this Agreement or otherwise, for seniority,
       vacation time, vacation pay, sick leave, personal time off, health insurance,
                                                    ' social security, disability, workers'
       medical care, hospital care, retirement benefits,
       compensation, or unemployment insurance benefits, civil service protection, or
       employee benefits of any kind.

       Contractor shall be sojely liable for and obligated to pay directly all applicable
       payroll taxes (including fe~eral and state income taxes) or contributions for
       unemployment insurance or old age pensions or annuities which are imposed by
     , any gove'r_nmental entity in connection with the labor used or which are measured
       by wages, salaries or other r~muneration paid to its officers, agents or employees,
       and Contractor agre~s to indemnify and hold District harmless from any and all
       liability which the District may incur because of Contractor's failure to pay such
       amounts.

       In carrying out the work contemplated herein, Contractor shall comply with all
       applicable federal gnd state workers' compensation and liability laws and
       regulations with respect to the officers, agents and/or employees conducting and
       participating in the work; and agrees that such officers, agents, and/or employees
       will be considered as independent contractors and shall not be treated or
       considered in any way as officers, agents and/or employees of the District.

       Contractor shall perform all services required pursuant to this Agreement in the
       manner according to currently approved standards observed by a competent
       practitioner for the profession in which the Contractor is engaged.

       Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the District in its discretion determines that
       pursuant to state and federal law Contractor is an employee for purposes of

                                                                                 Page 2 of 17

                                                                                                P45
     income tax withholding, the District may upon two (2) weeks' notice to Contractor,
     withhold from payments otherwise due to Contractor hereunder federal and state
     income taxes and to pay said sums to the federal and state governments.

7.   INDEMNIFICATION
     The Contractor shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the District its officers,
     directors, officials, employees, consultants, and volunteers from and against
     losses arising out of, resulting from, or relating to the performance of Contractor's
     obligation under this Agreement.

     The District shall not be liable or responsible for any accidents, loss, injury
     (including death) or damages happening or accruing during the term of the
     performance of the work herein referred to or in connE?ction therewith, to persons
     and/or property, and the Contractor shall fully indemnify, defend and hold harmless
     the DISTRICT and protect the District from and against the same a~ provided
     above. In addition to the liability imposed by l~w upon the Contract9r for damage
     or injury (including death) to persons or property qy reason of the acfions, conduct,
     or omissions of the Contractor, it!? officers, agents, employees/ or subcontractors,
     which liability is not impaired or otherwise affected hereby, the Contractor shall
     defend, indemnify, hold harmless, release and forever discharge the District, its
     officers, directors, officials, employees, consultants, and volunteers from and
     against and waive any and all responsibility and liability of same for every expense,
     liability, or payment by reason of any damage or injury (including death) to persons
     or property suffered or claimed to have been suffered through any negligent act,
     omission, or willful misc_;onduct of the Contractor, in carrying out its responsibilities
     under this Agreement. The Con\ractor agrees that this indemnity and hold
     harmless shall apply even in the event of negligence of the District, its officers,
     directors, officials, employees, consultants, and volunteers regardless of whether
     such negligence is contributory to any claim, demand, loss, damage, injury,
     expense, and/or liability; but suph indemnity and hold harmless shall not apply (i)
     in the event of the sole negligence of the District, its officers, directors, officials,
     employees, consultants, and volunteers; or (ii) to the extent that the District shall
     indemnify and hold harmless the Contractor for hazardous materials pursuant to
     the Contract Documents.

     In claims against any person or entity indemnified under this section that are made
     by an employee of the Contractor or any subcontractor, a person indirectly
     employed by the Contractor or any subcontractor, or anyone for whose acts the
     Contractor or any subcontractor may be liable, the indemnification obligation under
     this section shall not be limited by any limitation on amount or type of damages,
     compensation, or benefits payable by or for the Contractor or any subcontractor
     under workers' compensation acts, disability benefit acts, or other employee
     benefit acts.




                                                                                  Page 3 of 17

                                                                                                 P46
     The indemnification obligations under this section shall not be limited by any
     assertion or finding that the person or entity indemnified is liable by reason of a
     non-delegable duty.

     The Contractor shall indemnify the District from and against losses resulting from
     any claim of damage made by any separate contractor against the District arising
     out of any alleged acts or omissions of the Contractor, any subcontractor, anyone
     directly or indirectly employed by either of them, or anyone for whose acts either
     of them may be liable.

     The Contractor shall indemnify separate contractors from and against losses
     arising out of the negligent acts, omissions, or willful misconduct of the Contractor,
     any subcontractor, anyone directly or indirectly employed by either of them, or
     anyone for whose acts either of them may be liable.

     The District shall provide to the Contractor r~asonably, timely notifieation of the
     receipt of any third party claim relating to this Agreement.

     These indemnity provisions shall survive any termination of the Agreement and/or
     the final performance of the Agreement by the Contractor.

8.   LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
     In the event of any action brought by Contractor against the District arising out of
     this Agreement, under no circumstances will Contractor be entitled to
     consequential damages for any loss of profit or damage to reputation. Under no
     circumstances will Contractor be entitled to limit special damages claimed by the
     District. lq the event of breach of this Agreement, the District shall be entitled to
     any and all damages, or legal or equitable remedy, available under law.

9.   INSURANCE
     Contractor shall furnish to the District a certificate evidencing insurance coverages
     outlined below. Copies of required endorsements must be attached to the provided
     certificates. It is the responsibility of the Contractor to notify its insurance advisor
     or insurance carrier(s) regarding coverage, limits, forms, and other insurance
     requirements specified below. All documents must be received and approved by
     the District prior to the commencement of any Services. The required insurance
     coverages shall be consistently maintained for the duration of the agreement
     without a lapse in coverage. Please note, the required coverages outlined below
     shall not limit the amount of coverage provided, but shall be the minimum
     requirements acceptable to the District. All policies shall evidence insurance
     written by carriers rated at least "A" in A. M. Bests Key Rating Guide.




                                                                                 Page 4 of 17

                                                                                                P47
       GENERAL LIABILITY - shall be on an Occurrence basis (as opposed to Claims
       Made basis). Minimum limits and structure shall be:
                 • General Liability: $2,000,000 per occurrence/$4,000,000 aggregate
                 • Products Comp/Op Aggregate:                         $4,000,000
                 • Personal & Adv. Injury:                             $1,000,000
                 • Fire Damage:                                 $100,000

       AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY
              • Commercial Automobile Liability (for Corporate/business owned
                 vehicles including non-owned and hired) - $1,000,000 Combined
                 Single Limit.
              • Personal Lines Automobile Liability (for individually owned vehicles,
                 $250,000 per person, $500,000 ~ach accident) - $100,000 property
                 damage.

       WORKERS COMPENSATION and EMPLOYER'S LIABILITY
              • The policy shall be endorsed to waive the insurer's subrogation
                rights against the District.
              • Per statute
              • $1,000,000 per accident for each accident
              • $1,000,000 for disease

       PROFESSIONAL LIAB!LITY
              •   Professional Liability or Errors and Omissions Liability:
                  $2,000,00Q per claim and aggregate.

ADDITIONAL INSURED
The Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, its officers, directors, officials,
employee~. and volunteers are to be endorsed as additional insureds on the
Contractor'~ General Liability and Auto policies as respects: liability arising out of
activities performed by or on behalf of Contractor; products and completed
operations of Contractor; premises owned, occupied or used by Contractor; or
automobiles owned; leased, hired or borrowed by Contractor. The coverage shall
contain no endorsed limitations on the scope of protection afforded to the District,
its officers, director$, officials, employees, or volunteers.

PRIMARY & NON-CONTRIBUTORY
Coverage provided by Contractor shall be primary and any insurance or self-
insurance procured or maintained by the District shall not be required to contribute
with it. The limits of insurance required herein may be satisfied by a combination
of primary and umbrella or excess insurance. Any umbrella or excess insurance
shall contain or be endorsed to contain a provision that such coverage shall also
apply on a primary and non-contributory basis for the benefit of the District before
the District's own insurance or self-insurance shall be called upon to protect it as
a named insured.



                                                                          Page 5 of 17

                                                                                         P48
   Insurance policies shall include a provision for the District to be given 30 days prior
   written notice of cancellation and 30 days written notice of any material change(s)
   requested by the policy holder of said insurance policies. Contractor shall furnish
   documentary evidence of such policies and the renewal or continuance of such
   insurances within 10 business days of any expiration date(s) thereof during the life
   of this Agreement.

   The District will not be responsible for any deductible that may apply in any of the
   said insurance policies.

   Contractor covenants and agrees that the District's insurance requirements shall
   not be construed to and in no manner limit or restrict the liability of the Contractor.

   Certificates of Insurance shall be sent to:
   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   Attn: Purchasing Division
   3012 Gold Canal Drive
   Rancho Cordova, CA 95670

   Or

   purchasing@metrofire.ca.gov

10.CONFORMITY WITH LAW AND SAFETY
In performing services under this Agreemeht, Contractor shall observe and comply
with all applicable laws, ordinances, codes and regulations of governmental agencies,
including, but not limited to, federal, state, municipal, and local governing bodies,
having jurisdiq!ion over the scope of servic~s provided by Contractor.

11.TAXES
Payment of all app_licable' federal, state, and local taxes shall be the sole responsibility
of the Contractor.

12. ACCESS AND RETENTION OF RECORDS
Contractor agrees to provide the District and its designee's access to all of the
Contractor's records related this contract and that the Contractor shall maintain its
records relatec;:I to this contract for a period of not less than five (5) years after the final
payment to the Contractor is made by the District.

13.RIGHT TO AUDIT
The District reserves the right to audit Contractor's books, a~counts, and records
related to the performance of this Agreement. Such audits may be conducted by the
District or its authorized representatives at reasonable times during normal business
hours upon providing 30 days' written notice to Contractor. The purpose of such audits
is to ensure compliance with the terms of this Agreement and to verify the accuracy
of Contractor's performance.

                                                                                    Page 6 of 17

                                                                                                   P49
14.CONFLICT OF INTEREST
Contractor covenants that he presently has no interest, and shall not obtain any
interest, direct or indirect, which would conflict in any manner with the performance of
services required under this Agreement, including but not limited to any provision of
services to any federal, state or local regulatory or other public agency which has any
interest adverse or potentially adverse to the District, as determined in the reasonable
judgment of the Board of Directors of the District. Entering into this agreement does
not preclude Contractor from working for others as long as Contractor ensures that
such work does not constitute a conflict of interest.

15.ANTI-CORRUPTION/ANTI-FRAUD
Each Party (District and Contractor) agrees not to make, authorize, offer, or promise
to make or give any money or any other thing of value, dir~ctfy or indirectly, to any
current or former government official or employee, candidate for political office, or an
official of a political party, or any employee, director or consultant of a non-government
client or potential client, for the purpose .ofsecuring c!nY improper or unfair advantage
or obtaining or retaining business iii connection with the activities contemplated
hereunder or for the purpose of improp_erly inducing or rewarding favorable treatment
or advantage in connection wit_      h this Agreement. Each Par.ty agrees to immediately
notify the other of any request f~at it receives to take any action that might constitute,
or be construed as, a violation of the anti-com1ption and anti-bribery laws.

The Contractor shall desist, and shall ensure that each of its subcontractors and
agents desist, from · c1JI practices th;:tt may lead to penal liability due to fraud or
embezzlement, bribery, acceptance of bribes, or other corruption crimes on the part
of persons employed by Contractor or its subcontractors or agents. The Contractor
warrants that it has not committed any of the aforementioned acts nor has it been the
subject of any relevant investigation or inquiry.

16.CONFIDENTIALITY AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS
Contractor agrees that 'any information, whether proprietary or not, made known to or
discovered by him dwing the performance of or in connection with this Agreement for
the District will be kept confidential and not be disclosed to any other person or entity
except as requireg by law. Contractor agrees to immediately notify the District if
Contractor is requ'ested to disclose to others any information made known to or
discovered by hi_m during the performance of or in connection with this Agreement.
These conflict of interest and future service provisions and limitations shall remain
fully effective for five (5) years after Contractor's termination of services to the District
hereunder.

All methods, techniques, patents, processes, and inventions developed by the
Contractor for purposes of District business are deemed property of the District.

17. USE OF DISTRICT PROPERTY



                                                                                 Page 7 of 17

                                                                                                P50
   Contractor shall not use District property (including equipment, instruments and
   supplies) or personnel for any purpose other than in the performance of the
   Contractor's obligations under this Agreement.

   18. RIGHT TO REFUSE PERSONNEL
   The District reserves the right to refuse, at its sole discretion, any subcontractors or
   any personnel provided by the Contractor or its subcontractors. The District reserves
   the right to interview and approve all proposed staff members.

   19. TERMINATION
   Either party may terminate this Agreement for a material breach upon five (5) days
   written notice to the other if the other party has substantially failed to fulfill any of its
   obligations under this Agreement in a timely manner as provided herein.

   Any of the following occurrences or acts, whreh are non exclusive, will constitute a
                                                  '
   material breach by the Contractor under the terms and conditions of th~"Agreement:

       a. non-performance or non-observance of any of its other covenants,
          agreements, or obligations hereunder, express or implied, c'ontinuing for fifteen
          (15) days after the District has given the Contractor n-otice in writing. If the
          failure cannot be remedied within fifteen (15) days, the District, at its discretion,
          may extend, in writing, the time period, or terminate the Agreement;
       b. an assignment for the benefit of creditors or becoming bankrupt or insolvent,
          taking the benefit of any legi~lation for the protection of bankrupt or insolvent
          parties;                        '
       c. the appointment of a rec~iver for the Contractor; or
       d. for re 9sons including, bu-t not limited to, unethical or criminal activities.

      In the event either subparagraphs a), b), c), or d) occur, as set forth in this
Agreement, the      District will have the right to terminate the Agreement immediately,
which shall be done         in writing and sent to the Contractor via certified, ·u.s. Mail.

   The District has and reserves the right to terminate this Agreement at its convenience
   and without cause upor thirty (30) days written notice to Contractor. In the event that
   the District should terminate this Agreement for its convenience, Contractor shall be
   entitled to payment for services provided hereunder, but only for such services
   performed prior to the effective date of said termination accrued as of the date of the
   termination, which payment shall be per the terms set forth in Exhibit B. In the event
   of Agreement termination, all documentation relating to the District's account shall be
   returned to the District.

   20.ASSURANCE OF PERFORMANCE
   If at any time District believes Contractor may not be adequately performing its
   obligations under this Agreement or that Contractor may fail to complete the services
   as required by this Agreement, District may, at its option, request from Contractor
   prompt written assurances of perfo_rmance and a written plan acceptable to District, to

                                                                                    Page 8 of 17


                                                                                                   P51
correct the observed deficiencies in Contractor's performance. Contractor shall
provide such written assurances and written plan within ten (10) calendar days of the
Contractor's receipt of the District's request and shall thereafter diligently commence
and fully perform such written plan. Contractor acknowledges and agrees that any
failure to provide such written assurances and written plan within the required time
shall constitute grounds for termination pursuant to Section 19 of this Agreement.

21.CHOICE OF LAW
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California. Any legal
action concerning or arising out of this Agreement shall be filed in a court of the State
of California having jurisdiction of the subject matter, and venue shall be in the County
of Sacramento, State of California.

22. ENTIRE AGREEMENT
This Agreement, including all attachments,· exhibits, and any other documents
specifically incorporated into this Agreement, shall constitute the entire 'agreement
between District and Contractor relating to the subj~ct matter of this A'greement. As
used herein, Agreement refers to and includes any doc\Jments incorporated herein by
reference and any exhibits or attachm~nts.

This Agreement supersedes and merges 9 11 previous understandings, and all other
agreements, written or oral, between the Parties and sets forth the entire
understanding of the Parties regarding the subject matter thereof. The Agreement may
not be modified except by a written document signed by both Parties.

23. MODIFICATION OF AGREliMENT
This Agreement may be supplemented, amended or modified only by the mutual
agreement of the Parties. No suppl~ment, amendment or modification of this
Agreement shall b~ binding unless it is in writing and signed by authorized
representatives of both Parties.

24. MODIFICATIONS OF SCOPE
The District reserves the right to make changes in the scope of work or the manner of
its performance. No change shall be made to the scope of work by the Contractor or
the time or the manner 0f its performance without prior written approval from the
District. Should the Contractor wish to modify the scope of work, the Contractor shall
submit a written change order specifying the change in plans, specifications,
procedures, tfme, sequence, or other requirements of this Agreement, detailing
whether such change will result in an adjustment to compensation or time for
performance.

25. SEVERABILITY
If any part of this Agreement or the application thereof is declared to be invalid by law
for any reason, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement
which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions of this Agreement are deemed severable.

                                                                              Page 9 of 17

                                                                                             P52
26. SUB-CONTRACTING, SUCCESSORS, AND ASSIGNS
This agreement is binding upon and inures to the benefit of the successor, executors,
administrators, and assigns of each party to this agreement, provided, however, that
Contractor shall not assign or transfer by operation of law or otherwise any or all rights,
burdens, duties, or obligations without prior written consent of the District. Any
attempted assignment without such consent shall be invalid.

The Contractor shall not subcontract, transfer, or assign this Agreement or any part
thereof, or interest therein, directly or indirectly, voluntarily or involuntarily, to any
person without obtaining the prior written consent of the District. Each subcontractor
must be approved in writing by the District. The substitution of one subcontractor for
another may be made only at the discretion of the District and with prior, written
approval from the District.

Notwithstanding the use of approved subcontractors, the Contractor will be the prime
contractor and will be responsible for all work performed and will be responsible for all
costs to subcontractors for services provided by the Contractor.

The Contractor remains legally responsible for the performance of all contract terms
including work performed by third parties under subcontracts. Any subcontracting will
be subject to all applicable provisions to thi~ Agreement. Contractor shall be held
responsible by the District for the performance of any subcontractor whether approved
by the District or not. .

27.PATENTS AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
The Contractor will pay aWroyaltles and patent license fees or other fees in respect of
any intellectual property right requir~d to perform the work stipulated in the
Agreement. The Contractor shall, at its own expense, defend all suits and proceedings
instituted against the District and indemnify the District against any award of damages,
dem·ands, losses, charges or costs made against District if such suits or proceedings
ar~ based on any o!airri that any of the products, documentation, parts or equipment,
as supplied by the Contractor, constitutes an infringement, or an alleged infringement,
of any patent or other intellectual property right by the Contractor or anyone for whose
acts it is liable.

If any of the produets, documentation, parts or equipment supplied by the Contractor
constitute an infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights and its use is
enjoined, the Contractor will, at its own expense, procure for the District, the right to
continue its prior use, replace or modify the supplied item so it becomes non infringing
and meets the District's requirements, or pay District for its loss of use of the item and
for consequential damages or losses which occur as a result of the actual or alleged
infringement of any patent or other intellectual property right, by the Contractor or
anyone for whose acts it is liable.




                                                                              Page 10 of 17

                                                                                              P53
The Contractor represents and warrants that it has the sole and unrestricted right title
and interest or good and sufficient power, authority, and right, to use any intellectual
property required for the performance of the Agreement.

The Contractor shall hold the District, its Board of Directors, the Chief, employees,
officers, and agents harmless from and against all claims, demands, losses, costs,
damages, actions, suits or proceedings arising out of the Contractor's performance of
the Agreement which are attributable to an infringement or an alleged infringement by
the Contractor, or anyone for whose acts they may be liable, of any intellectual
property right. If the District is enjoined or there is a reasc;m·able likelihood that it may
be enjoined as a result of an injunction or claim from using any intellectual property
that is incorporated into, or associated with, any product or equipment installed by the
Contractor, the Contractor at its sole expense, shall: procure the right for the District
to continue using the infringing intellectual property; or replace or modify the
intellectual property to make it non-infringing, so long as such replacement or
modification does not adversely affect the performance or use of the- product or
equipment or the work generally, all subject to the prior written approval by the District.

28.NOTICES
All notices, requests, demands, or other communications under this Agreement shall
be in writing. Notices shall be giyen for all purposes as follows:

   Personal delivery: When personally deliv~red to the recipient, notices are
   effective on delivery.

   First Class Mail: WhE;m mailed first class to the last address of the recipient known
   to the party giving noti~e. notice is effective three (3) mail delivery days after
   deposit in a United States Postal Service office or mailbox.

   Certified Mail: When mailed certified mail, return receipt requested, notice is
   effective on receipt, if delivery is confirmed by a return receipt.

   Overnight Delivery: When delivered by overnight delivery (Federal
   Express/United Parcel Service/OHL Worldwide Express) with charges prepaid or
   charged to the sender's account, notice is effective on delivery, if delivery is
   confirmed by the delivery service.


   Addresses for purpose of giving notice are as follows:
   To: DISTRICT:             Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                      Attn: Dave O'Toole, Chief Financial Officer
                      10545 Armstrong Ave, Suite 200
                      Mather, CA 95655

   To: CONTRACTOR:        KNN Public Finance, LLC
                  Attn: [CONTRACTOR POINT OF CONTACT]

                                                                                Page 11 of 17


                                                                                                P54
                            [CONTRACTOR ADDRESS]


       Any correctly addressed notice that is refused, unclaimed, or undeliverable
because of an          act or omission of the party to be notified shall be deemed effective
as of the first date that said notice was refused, unclaimed, or deemed undeliverable by
the postal      authorities, messenger, or overnight delivery service.

       Any party may change its address by giving the other party notice of the change in
       any manner permitted by this Agreement.

   29. SIGNATORIES
   By signing this agreement, signatories warrant and represent that they have executed
   this Agreement in their authorized capacity.                   •

   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the
   day and year above written.                                    -




       SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN                                           CONTRACTOR
             FIRE DISTRICT


       By: - - - - -- - -- - -                                  By:

                     Signah,ire                                          Signature

       Name:                                                    Name:

       Title:                                                   Title:


       Date:                                            Date:




                                       EXHIBIT A
                                    Scope of Services


                                                                                 Page 12 of 17

                                                                                                 P55
The scope of services to be provided by the Contractor shall include the following
activities as needed to meet the District's goals. Under direction of the District's Chief
Financial Officer, the Contractor shall provide comprehensive municipal advisory services
throughout the agreed upon term of the contract in relation to the implementation of the
District's GO bond program. Services include:


   A. Financial Planning and Structuring
      1. Evaluate the District's financial capacity and tax base to determine the optimal
         size, structure, and timing of GO bond issuance. •
      2. Develop a comprehensive financing plan that includes cash flow projections,
         debt service schedules, and tax rate impact analysis.
      3. Prepare long-term financial forecasts related to the Measure O GO bond
         program, including a property tax forec.:;ist and estimate of the tax impact of
         the issuance of Measure O bonds on residents of the District.
      4. Provide capital market analysis to identify financing options and.niake
         recommendations for the timing and pricing strategy for the issuance of bonds
         pursuant to Measure O authorization.
      5. Provide recommendations on GO bond issuance structure (e.g., serial vs.
         term bonds, call provisions).
      6. Assist the District with preparing related policies, including procedures to
         comply with post-issuance and ongoing reporting requirements.

   B. Legal and Regulatory-Compliat1ce
      1. Ensure Metro Fire compliance with all federal, state, and local regulations
           governing GO bond issuance, in~luding but not limited to:
              a. SEC regulations and Munieipal Advisor Rule.
              b. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requirements for tax-exempt bonds.
              c. State-sp~cific laws governing GO bonds.
      2. · Collaborat~ with b,ond couns_el to ensure that all legal documentation (e.g.,
           Preliminary and Official Statements, Resolutions, and Bond Purchase
           Agreements) meets regulatory requirements.
      3. Assist in ·prepafing materials for public hearings, voter engagement, and board
           approvals in accordance with applicable laws.
      4. Advise the District on applicable citizens' oversight requirements related to the
           GO bond issuance.

   C. Credit Rating and Investor Relations
      1. Advise and assist the District in preparing presentations and materials for credit
         rating agencies to obtain favorable ratings, as necessary.
      2. Develop an investor outreach strategy to maximize market participation and
         competitive pricing.
      3. Coordinate due diligence meetings and respond to inquiries from potential
         investors.



                                                                               Page 13 of 17

                                                                                               P56
   4. Upon request, review and evaluate pro-forma models for real property and
      assist in negotiations and interactions with lenders, developers, other public
      and private partners, property owners, and government agencies.

D. Procurement and Coordination of Financing Team
   1. Assist in the selection and coordination of underwriters, bond counsel,
      disclosure counsel, and other key participants in the financing process.
   2. Ensure seamless coordination among the financing team to meet critical
      deadlines and milestones.
   3. Work with District staff, underwriters, consultants, an"d bond counsel to
      develop and initiate plans of finance, including the structuring, terms, and
      conditions of potential debt offerings.

E. Documentation and Disclosure Support
   1. Prepare or review key disclosure documents, including the Preliminary Official
      Statement (POS) and Official Statement· (OS), ensuring ~ccuracy and
      compliance with disclosure requirements.
   2. Provide guidance on continuing disclosure obligations under SEC Rule 15c2-
      12 and assist in setting up post-issuance compliance procedures.
F. Bond Issuance and Sale
   1. Assist in determining the method of sale (competitive, negotiated, or private
      placement) and develop appropriate sale documentation.
   2. Participate in pre-pricing and pr_icing calls to ensure the District receives the
      most favorable terms.
   3. Assist with the prep_~ration for and participate in presentations, discussions,
      meetings, and conference calls with creqit rating agencies for the issuance of
      debt.
   4. Assist with the preparation for and participate in information meetings and
      conference calls with prospective investors and others, as appropriate, prior
      to the issuance of debt.
   5. Serve as pricing agent on the District's behalf in the pricing of bonds for
      negotiated bond sales and facilitate and/or coordinate with all entities
      necessary to assist the District in the execution of competitive bond sales.
   6. Review final pricing results, and provide a post-sale analysis report to the
      District.

G. Post-Issuance:Compliance and Reporting
   1. Assist in the preparation for and the execution of the closing of financing
      transactions.
   2. Develop a post-issuance compliance plan, including ongoing monitoring of
      bond proceeds, arbitrage compliance, and use of funds.
   3. Provide training and support to District staff on post-issuance compliance
      requirements.
   4. Assist in the preparation and filing of annual continuing disclosure reports and
      arbitrage rebate calculations.
   5. Assist with and participate in presentations to the District's Board of Directors.

                                                                            Page 14 of 17

                                                                                            P57
6. Make presentations to the District's Board of Directors and District
   Management, as requested.




                                EXHIBIT B

                             Payment Terms




                                                                          Page 15 of 17

                                                                                          P58
The fee for services shall not exceed the rates outlined in the Contractor's Fee Proposal.
Payment for additional services outside the scope of this Agreement may be requested
and approved by the District through an amendment to this Agreement and shall be
subject to the rates outlined in the Contractor's Fee Proposal.

The Contractor shall submit properly certified invoices to the District.
   • Invoices shall be submitted upon the completion of each phase, including pre-
     transaction and planning, execution, and compliance phases.
   • Any reimbursable expenses shall be itemized on the invoice.
   • For services provided on an hourly basis, invoices shall detail the position title (ex.
     Associate, Director), number of hours, and hourly rate.

Invoices shall be sent to:

       ap@metrofire.ca.gov
       o'toole.dave@metrofire.ca.gov

If invoices cannot be sent via email, invoices shall be mailed to:

       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
       Attn: Finance Division
       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200
       Mather, CA 95655

Failure to comply with these requirements or to provide an invoice in conformance with
this Agreement document may deI9y payment.

The District will riot be bound by prices contained in an invoice that are higher than the
pricing contained on the original Fee Proposal. If a price increase has not been accepted
in writin_g by the District, the invoice may be rejected.

No advance payment ~hall be made for goods or services furnished by the Contractor
pursuant to this Agreem.ent. Payment terms are net 60 from the date of receipt of an
invoice.




                                                                                Page 16 of 17


                                                                                                P59
                                             Contractor's Fee Proposal



  P R E - TR A N S AC T I O N A L ADV I SO RY F EE S . For advisory services related to the pre-transaction planning
  phase of the program, KNN proposed charging on an hourly basis, with a not-to-exceed cap of $ 10,000. The
  planning phase would cease upon the "kick-off' meeting for the first issuance of GO bonds. We expect this phase
  to last no more than 3-6 months from the award of the contract and would request the ability to renegotiate the not-
  to-exceed amount if the timing exceeds that time frame.

  KN N's hourly rate schedule is provided in the table to the right Pre-   TillE                       HOURLY RATE
  transaction services include, but are not limited to, running
                                                                           senior Managing Director    S-425.00
  preliminary financing scenarios under multiple bond structures and
  presentations to stakeholders.                                           Managing Director           $400.00
                                                                           Dtrecror                    $375.00
  TR A NS AC Tl O N A D V I S O R Y F EE S . Once the District is
                                                                           Vice President           $350.00
  prepared to move forward with the financing, for municipal advisory
                                                                                                    $325.00
  services related to the execution a public sale of General Obligation Assistant Vice President
  Bonds, KNN proposes a fixed transaction fee of $40,000 for the first Associate                    $300.00
  issuance of the authorization, fully contingent upon the pricing and Analyst                      $275.00
  closing of the transaction. We expect this phase to last no more
  than 6 months from "kick-off meeting and would request the ability to renegotiate the not-to-exceed amount if the
  timing exceeds 6 months.
  R E I M B U RS A BL E EX PENSES. Additionally, KNN seeks reimbursementforexpensesactuallyincurred, which
  would consist primarily of third-party information services (if necessary for disclosure or rating agency purposes)
  and travel to and from meetings at the District, capped at $2,500 for each phase (pre-transaction and transaction).



The fee for subsequent issuances sha ll not exce~d $45,000.




                                                                                                         Page 17 of 17

                                                                                                                         P60
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
 1         I
                    10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702
lfiu,~
     DATE:         February 13, 2025

     TO:           Board of Directors

     SUBJECT:      Memorandum of Understanding with County of Sacramento for
                   Investment of Surplus Funds


                                                TOPIC

     Adoption of a Memorandum of Understanding authorizing the Chief Financial Officer
     to invest designated surplus funds outside of the County Treasury.

                                          BACKGROUND

     The District deposits all funds received with the County of Sacramento (County), who
     provides treasury and payment services to the District. Under Attorney General
     Opinion 08-602 (92 Ops. Cal. Atty. Gen 83), the District Board of Directors (Board)
     has authority to invest specific funds independent of the County Treasury, generally
     for the purpose of generating returns higher than what is earned on deposit with the
     County.

                                            DISCUSSION

     The District has compared County investment returns with other comparable public
     agency investment vehicles and .determined that a higher interest rate will be offered
     with CalTRUST. CalTRUST is a Sacramento-based Joint Powers Authority created
     by public agencies in 2003 to enable public agencies to pool their investment assets
     for improved returns in the same investment types, with no additional risk.

     This Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) would authorize the Chief Financial
     Officer to invest certain non-operational funds with CalTRUST. The fund named in
     the MOU is the Special Projects Fund, which will be used for construction of the
     Zinfandel Training Center. Special Project Fund monies would only be invested for
     the duration when they are not needed for project expenditures.

                                          FISCAL IMPACT

     The proposed MOU will have no immediate fiscal impact on the District. If the District
     opts to invest Special Project Funds monies with CalTRUST, there will be improved
     investment returns. For example, the investment of $9 million over a period of one
     year would generate increased revenue of approximately $70,000.




                                Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                                                 P61
Page2


        RECOMMENDATION

        Staff recommends the adoption of the MOU authorizing the Chief Financial Officer to
        invest funds in the Special Project Fund outside of the County Treasury.


        Submitted by:



        Dave O'Toole
        Chief Financial Officer
                                                            ~ ~a::
                                                            Adam House
                                                            Fire Chief




        ATTACHMENTS:
        Memorandum of Understanding Relating to the Investment of Surplus Funds




                                  Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties


                                                                                              P62
  MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BY AND BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF
SACRAMENTO AND SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT RELATING
             TO THE INVESTMENT OF SURPLUS FUNDS

      This Memorandum of Understanding ("MOU") is made and entered into as of this
      13th day of February 2025 by and between the County of Sacramento, a political
      subdivision of the State of California, hereinafter referred to as "COUNTY," and
      the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, hereinafter referred to as "DISTRICT,"
      an independent public fire district formed pursuant to Health and Safety Code
      section 13801 et seq.

The intent of this MOU is to effectuate the DISTRICT Board of Director's desire to
separately invest Surplus Funds pursuant to Attorney General Opinion 08-602 (92
Ops.Cal.Atty.Gen 83), wherein the District Board has authority to invest those specific
funds independent of the County Treasurer. DISTRICT intends to maintain its
operational funds on deposit with the County Treasurer.

                                     AGREEMENT

   1. Definitions. Unless the context otherwise requires, as used in this MOU, the
      following terms shall have the following meanings:

          a. "DIRECTOR OF FINANCE" means the COUNTY Director of Finance.

          b. "CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER" means the Chief Financial Officer of
             SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT.

          c. "SURPLUS FUNDS" means funds that are held with the COUNTY in
             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Special Projects Fund
             number 212S with the intent to be invested until a new training center
             is constructed, by the Board of Directors of the District as SUPRLUS
             FUNDS.

          d. "CALTRUST" means the DISTRICT's initial investment account for
             the SURPLUS FUNDS.

   2. DISTRICT unconditionally releases COUNTY and DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
      from all fiduciary responsibility and liability relating to SURPLUS FUNDS
      withdrawn from the COUNTY Treasury.

   3. The CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER will submit a claim in writing to the COUNTY
      to request the balance of the SURPLUS FUNDS on deposit in the COUNTY
      Treasury in FUND 212S to be distributed to the DISTRICT investment account at
      CALTRUST.




                                                                                          P63
       4 . DISTRICT will transfer funds back to the COUNTY'S Treasury at applicable
           times into its operating fund to pay operating expenses associated with the
           SURPLUS FUNDS.

          DISTRICT shall not make operational expenditures directly out of accounts at
          CALTRUST or any successor investment account pertaining to the SURPLUS
          FUNDS.

       5. The COUNTY Treasury may not be used by DISTRICT for arbitrage purposes.
          No funds withdrawn from the COUNTY Treasury by DISTRICT for investment
          may be redeposited into the COUNTY Treasury, without the DIRECTOR OF
          FINANCE's approval, except for deposits made to comply with the requirement
          in Section 4 of this MOU.

   6.     Except as provided herein, no alteration, amendment, variation, or waiver of the
          terms of this MOU shall be valid unless made in writing and signed by all parties
          hereto.

   7.     Each person executing this MOU represents and warrants that he or she is duly
          authorized and has legal authority to execute and deliver the MOU for or on
          behalf of the MOU parties. Each party represents and warrants to the other that
          the execution and delivery of the MOU and the performance of such party's
          obligations hereunder have been duly authorized.


 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Memorandum of
 Understanding to be duly executed as of the day and year first written above.


 SACRAMENTO METRO FIRE                             COUNTY OF SACRAMENTO, a political
 DISTRICT, a public fire district formed           subdivision of the State of California
 pursuant to Health and Safety Code
 section 13801 et seq.
                                                  By:
 By:


                                                   Chad Rinde, Director of Finance
 Dave O'Toole, Chief Financial Officer




Date:                                             Date:




                                                                                              P64
