       l           I
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
   \i+;J~               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                           Thursday, February 13, 2025, – 6:00 PM
Ted Wood                                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                   10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4
                                                Board Room – Second Floor
John Costa                                            Mather, California
Board Vice President
Division 9
                                                              &
                                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                   Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                     Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                    Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member            https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFlLQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Division 1

Grant Goold
Board Member           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D’Elman Clark
Board Member
                       Application, please click on the link above.
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member           reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member           accommodations:
Division 8
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2025


 CALL TO ORDER

 ROLL CALL

 PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro14live.saccounty.gov. Today’s meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday,
February 17, 2025 and again at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, February 19, 2025, on Metro
Cable Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand
at youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers’ comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                    Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                              7
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of January 23, 2025.

2.     Parking Lot Lease – 7629 Greenback Lane                                      12
       Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to negotiate and execute
       a lease agreement materially similar to the attached.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                            THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2025


PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.   District Policies 2024 Year End Review                                                                             17
     (Chief Human Resources Officer Melisa Maddux)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation.

2.   Measure O General Obligation Bond Management Plan                                                                  26
     (Administrative Analyst Erin Castleberry)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation.

ACTION ITEMS:

1.   Formation of an Ad Hoc Committee to consider the qualifications and selection **
     criteria for members of the Measure O Citizens' Oversight Committee.
     (President Wood)
     Recommendation: Renominate three Board Members to an Ad Hoc Committee to
     consider the qualification and selection criteria for members of the Measure O
     Citizens' Oversight Committee and report back recommendations to the Board at the
     April 10, 2025 Board meeting or soon thereafter.

2.   Adopt Resolution – Contract Award – Municipal Advisory Services                      41
     (CFO Dave O’Toole)
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the award of RFP 24-04 Municipal
     Advisory Services to KNN Public Finance, LLC and authorize the Fire Chief or his
     designee to execute and administer a professional service agreement to provide
     municipal advisory services for a five-year period, with an option to renew for five
     additional one-year periods.

3.   Memorandum of Understanding with County of Sacramento for Investment                   61
     of Surplus Funds
     (CFO Dave O’Toole)
     Recommendation: Adopt the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) authorizing
     the Chief Financial Officer to invest funds in the Special Project Fund outside of the
     County Treasury.

4.   Adopt Resolution – Industrial Disability Retirement – Fire Investigator II         **
     Steven Johnson
     Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a
     Resolution finding Fire Investigator Johnson has suffered job related injuries
     incapacitating him for the performance of duties as a Fire Investigator II and direct
     staff to continue working with Fire Investigator Johnson through his Industrial
     Disability Retirement process with CalPERS.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                            THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2025


4.   Adopt Resolution – Industrial Disability Retirement – Captain Andrew Whaley **
     Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a
     Resolution finding Captain Whaley has suffered job related injuries incapacitating
     him for the performance of duties as Captain, and direct staff to continue working
     with Captain Whaley through his Industrial Disability Retirement process with
     CalPERS.

REPORTS:

1.   PRESIDENT’S REPORT — (President Wood)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT — (Chief House)

            OPERATIONS REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
            ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT – No Report
            SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT – No Report

3.   SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – Captain Sean Scollard, Local
     522 Vice President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

     A.    Executive Committee – (President Wood)
           Next Meeting: TBD

     B.    Communications Center JPA – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
           Next Meeting: March 11, 2025 at 9:00 AM

     C.    Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Jones)
           Next Meeting: February 27, 2025 at 5:30 PM

     D.     Policy Committee – (Director Costa)
            Next Meeting: March 13, 2025 at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2025


CLOSED SESSION:
The Board will convene in closed session to meet on the following matters:

1. PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (A) –TWO
   (2) MATTERS OF WORKERS COMPENSATION SETTLEMENT AUTHORITY.

    1.   Jason Cahill and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Claim # 4A2305MHPDS0001 – Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
         Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer

    2.   Eric Haus and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Claim # 4A2306VDWW0-0001, – Workers Compensation Settlement Authority
         Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer

2. PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 54956.9 (A) –
   TWO (2) MATTERS OF INDUSTRIAL DISABILITY RETIREMENT.

    1.   Steven Johnson and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Claim #SMDP - 549755 – Industrial Disability Retirement
         Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer

    2.   Andrew Whaley and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
         Claim # 4A2301JCRWJ0001 – Industrial Disability Retirement
         Melisa Maddux, Chief Human Resources Officer

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

    •    Regular Board Meeting – February 27, 2025 at 6:00 PM

Posted on February 6, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.


_____________________________________
Marni Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
*    Separate Attachment
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2025


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305.
Notification at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable
arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
