             SAN JUAN SUBURBAN WATER DISTRICT FINANCING CORPORATION
                            ANNUAL MEETING AGENDA

                                               9935 Auburn Folsom Road
                                                 Granite Bay, CA 95746

                                                     December 14, 2022
                                                         6:00 p.m.

This Board meeting will be conducted both in-person at the District’s Boardroom at the address above,
and via videoconference. The District recommends that members of the public participate in Board
meetings via videoconference per the instructions below. Persons who do plan to attend the meeting in
person are urged to contact the Board Secretary prior to the meeting. The contact information for the
Board Secretary is:

                                                             Teri Grant
                                                           (916) 791-6905
                                                          tgrant@sjwd.org

To attend via videoconference, please use the following link:

                      Please join the meeting from your computer, tablet or smartphone.
                                       https://meet.goto.com/245724141

                                          You can also dial in using your phone.
                                             United States: +1 (872) 240-3212

                                                  Access Code: 245-724-141

                                                     Please mute your line.

Whether attending via videoconference or in person, the public is invited to listen, observe, and provide
comments during the meeting. The Board President will call for public comment on each agenda item at
the appropriate time.

The Board may take action on any item on the agenda, including items listed on the agenda as information items. The Board may
add an item to the agenda (1) upon a determination by at least three Board members that an emergency situation exists, or (2) upon
a determination by at least four Board members (or by three Board members if there are only three Board members present) that the
need to take action became apparent after the agenda was posted.

The public may address the Board concerning an agenda item either before or during the Board’s consideration of that agenda item.
Public comment on items within the jurisdiction of the Board is welcome, subject to reasonable time limitations for each speaker.
Upon request, agenda items may be moved up to accommodate those in attendance wishing to address that item. Please inform the
General Manager if you have such a request to expedite an agenda item.

Documents and materials that are related to an open session agenda item that are provided to the District Board less than 72 hours
prior to a regular meeting will be made available for public inspection and copying at the District office during normal District business
hours.

If you are an individual with a disability and need assistance or accommodation to participate in this Board meeting, please call Teri
Grant, Board Secretary, at 916-791-0115, or email Ms. Grant at tgrant@sjwd.org.


Please silence cell phones and refrain from side conversations during the meeting.
    I.       CALL TO ORDER

    II.      ROLL CALL

    III.     PUBLIC COMMENT

    IV.      ACTION ITEMS
             1. Approve minutes of San Juan Water District Financing Corporation meeting of
                December 8, 2021
             2. Other Business

    V.       FUTURE MEETING DATE - December 13, 2023

    VI.      ADJOURN



I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing agenda for the December 14, 2022 annual meeting of the Board of
Directors of San Juan Suburban Water District Financing Corporation was posted by December 9, 2022, on the outdoor bulletin
boards at the District Office Building, 9935 Auburn Folsom Road, Granite Bay, California, and was freely accessible to the
public.




                                                     Teri Grant, Board Secretary




(W) – Wholesale                                Page 2 of 2        SJSWD Financing Corporation Board of Directors
(R) – Retail                                                                                   Meeting Agenda
                                                                                            December 14, 2022
