Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
Tuesday, May 16, 2023 – 6:30 P.M.

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the regular meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Other Board members
present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano (arrived at 6:55 p.m.), Alfred Brown, Harold Fong,
Heather Davis, and Bina Lefkovitz. Joanne Ahola was absent.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendent Nick Schweizer; Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White; Executive
Directors Michael Kast, Xanthi Soriano, and Jerry Jones; and Executive Assistant
Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Brown led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

The following individuals made public comments regarding employee wages: Sean
Frame, See Vang, Kai Scott, Wendy Roberts, Braden Murphy, and Jessica Murphy.

B. Employee Organizations

Tara Degg, President of CSEA Chapter 480, provided an update on negotiations.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Motion by Trustee Brown to approve the minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of
   April 7, 2023, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Trustee Ahola



05.16.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        1
4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Adoption of Agenda
Motion by Trustee Davis to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented, second
by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Trustee Ahola

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

PREPARING STUDENTS
During the next few weeks, we begin our promotion and graduation celebrations.
On May 17 and 18, the Foundations Academy Graduation will be held at the SCOE
Conference Center at 10:30 a.m. On May 22, Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School will
hold its Workability World Award Ceremony at 10 a.m. at the school. On May 24, our
Community Schools and Senior Extension Graduation will take place at 2:00 p.m. at the
Scottish Rite Masonic Center. On June 6, Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School will hold
its 8th Grade Promotion Ceremony at 1:00 p.m. at the school. Then on June 7, Leo A.
Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School will celebrate their High School Graduation at 11:00 a.m.
On June 21, El Centro Jr./Sr. High School will have a Graduation ceremony at 9:00 a.m.

PROVIDING LEADERSHIP
In the area of literacy, on May 23 from 3:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., Becky Sullivan will be
participating in an EdSource Roundtable as a panelist to discuss what works to help
English learners learn how to read.

BUILDING PARTNERSHIPS
The Sacramento County Office of Education (SCOE) was honored to be recognized as
one of San Juan Unified Most Valued Partners (MVP) for the 2022-2023 school year for
its outstanding partnership for Youth Programs and Staff Professional Development.
The event was held at the Mission Oaks Community Center on May 11. We appreciate
President Keefer for attending and supporting SCOE at this event.

SCOE will be featured in an arts-focused story for the Inside California Education Series
in an upcoming season and plan to feature the Healthy HeArts and Minds program led
by Assistant Superintendent Jackie White and her team. Xanthi Soriano will help
facilitate this coverage.




05.16.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           2
Related to civic education, civic engagement, and social science, Rachel Perry and
Craig Irish have been holding listening sessions with Sacramento Region Academic
Decathlon and History Day coaches to identify strategies that will help grow participation
in these programs back to a pre-pandemic level.

Charley Gilmore and Xanthi Soriano are collaborating on ways to build awareness for
the State Seal of Civic Engagement. They have joined a national CivXNow coalition that
aims to increase the public’s commitment to civic engagement and schools’ civic
missions, as well as making civics relevant, by helping to change mindsets about the
importance of civic engagement.

At the end of April, Dr. Steve Winlock, Tierra Crothers, and Xanthi Soriano partnered on
a marketing and advertising campaign to launch SCOE’s Teacher Residency Program
for the 2023-2024 school year. More than 500 people registered to attend the info
sessions and approximately 300 attended. The application closes on May 23, after
which, people will apply for the 50 residency spots.

On May 19, the Career Pipeline, School-Based Mental Health and Wellness (SBMHW),
and Communications teams will officially announce the publication of the new
microsites. A communications campaign will be launched to grow awareness of the
sites and interest in these programs, as well as the other career, professional
development, and leadership opportunities SCOE has to offer.

EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION
On May 9, the winners of the California 2023 Classified School Employees of the Year
program were announced by State Superintendent Thurmond. Two classified school
employees from the Folsom Cordova Unified School District were selected to represent
California.

UPCOMING EVENTS
On May 17, SCOE, My Brother’s Keeper, and MENTOR California are hosting a
MIXer—an Artist and Mentor Networking Gathering—at the Sacramento Youth Center
on Del Paso Boulevard. The MIX is a space for community partners, youth serving
organizations and local artists can come together to network and align community
strategies that impact youth throughout the City of Sacramento.

On May 22, SCOE Staff are invited to attend the Learn at Lunch workshop titled “The
Intersection Between Equity and Mental Health,” which will be led by SCOE’s SBMHW
Clinicians.

On May 31, from 10:00 a.m. to 11:30 am, we will be celebrating the wonderful writers
from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School, at the Book Release Celebration of “Yellow
All Around Us” in the Multi-Purpose Room.

B. SCOE 2023 Classified Employee of the Year - Xanthi Soriano




05.16.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          3
Executive Director Michael Kast introduced Rachel Dennis, the SCOE 2023 Classified
Employee of the Year.

C. Operation Recognition - Awarding of Diploma - Xanthi Soriano

Executive Director Xanthi Soriano introduced Operation Recognition diploma recipient
Louis Soto.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Motion to approve the Consent Agenda Items Trustee Fong, second by Trustee
   Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Trustee Ahola

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
   White/Michael Kast

Executive Director Michael Kast announced the recent graduates which included nine
students from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. Senior Extension, one student from Cordova
Lane Senior Extension, six students from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School, and three
students from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension.

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Trustee Ahola

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget -
David W. Gordon

Motion to approve authorization to submit grant applications/service contracts and
accept funding if awarded; and approval of contracts, positions, and other expenditures
associated with the grants as outlined in the proposed budget by Trustee Fong, second
by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried



05.16.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                            4
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Trustee Ahola

A. Carl D. Perkins Career & Technical Education Grant - Dr. Nancy Herota

B. Universal Prekindergarten Mixed Delivery Planning Grant - Brent Malicote

10. New Business – Other

A. Appointment of Individual to the Local Child Care and Development Planning
   Council, 2022-2024 Term - Brent Malicote

Motion to approve appointment of Janine Cooper to the Local Child Care and
Development Planning Council, 2022-2024 Term by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by
Trustee Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Trustee Ahola

B. Capital College & Career Academy Countywide Charter Pre-Opening Status Update
   - Teresa Stinson

SCOE Legal Counsel Teresa Stinson announced the Capital College & Career
Academy (CCCA) Countywide Charter Pre-Opening Status Update and introduced
Consultant Sue Stickel, Associate Superintendent Nick Schweizer, and Kevin Dobson,
Founder and Executive Director of Capital College & Career Academy, all of whom
presented their update on the status of CCCA Countywide Charter.

Public Comment

The following individuals made public comments in support of CCCA: Tim Murphy; John
Belperio, Nor Cal Carpenters Union President; and Mario Wilson, Program Director for
Western Steel Council.

Trustee Davis made a motion to allow the CCCA charter school to proceed with its
efforts to open its charter school in 2023-2024, subject to the following conditions:

   •   By July 30, 2023, CCCA shall submit its confirmed enrollment, along with an
       updated budget and 3-year cash flow projections to SCOE for approval;
   •   CCCA's budget and revenues shall be based upon confirmed revenues and
       donations and shall include supporting documents or other information requested
       by SCOE; and
   •   The SCOE Board shall approve revised CCCA's budget before the charter school
       may open and operate for the 2023-2024 school year.




05.16.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          5
Second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Trustee Ahola

C. Board Report - Youth Voice/Civic Engagement Update - Jacqueline White/Brent
   Malicote

Assistant Superintendents Jacqueline White and Brent Malicote, and Curriculum
Specialist Charley Gilmore presented the Youth Voice/Civic Engagement Board report.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Fong - no report.

Trustee Davis - no report.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano stated that she is part of the Natomas Schools Foundation
and that she was late tonight due to presenting two scholarships at Natomas High
School. She commented that it has been a busy end of the school year and that she
has been part of numerous scholarship presentations and is participating in a Safe and
Sober Grad Night event this weekend. She thanked Superintendent Gordon and
Graciela Garcia-Torres for inviting her to be the keynote speaker at the State Seal of
Biliteracy event earlier this month.

Trustee Lefkovitz stated that May is Mental Health Awareness Month and National
Foster Care Month. She commented that she is excited about becoming a CASA
volunteer, a Court Appointed Special Advocate and will graduate June 1, 2023.

Trustee Brown stated that his high school friend, Levi Watkins, was involved with the
development of the heart defibrillator. Dr. Brown commented that the brother of Dr. Levi
Watkins recently invited him to Baltimore, MD, to the renaming of the John Hopkins
Medical School Outpatient Center in honor of Dr. Levi Watkins posthumously. Dr. Brown
was not able to attend. He also stated that Dr. Watkin’s contributions to the medical
community saved millions of lives around the world.

B. Board President

President Keefer recognized Trustee Corona Sabeniano for her keynote speech at the
State Seal of Biliteracy event earlier this month. He also thanked Board members for
their participation in the CCCA Charter School discussion and plan.

C. Committees



05.16.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           6
12. Items for Distribution

A. May/June Events and Site Visits

13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. June 13, 2023 and June 27, 2023

14. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Trustee Lefkovitz made a motion to adjourn the meeting in memory of SCOE
Coordinator, Career Pipeline Development, Terri Carpenter; second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown
Absent: Trustee Ahola

The meeting adjourned at 8:57 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,


David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




05.16.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        7
