                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
     Todd Harms
      Fire Chief
                                           BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING

                                          Thursday, October 13, 2022 – 6:00 PM
                                               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Cinthia Saylors                                     10545 Armstrong Avenue
Board President
Division 1
                                                   Board Room – Second Floor
                                                        Mather, California
D’Elman Clark                                                   &
Board Vice President
Division 6                                             Remotely Via Zoom
                                                      Phone: (669) 900-6833
Walt White
Board Secretary                                    Webinar ID: 814 0183 9461#
Division 9                                           Passcode: 029 577 122#
Grant Goold
Board Member
                           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                     and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Randy Orzalli
Board Member
                       The Governor has declared a State of Emergency to exist in California as a result of
Division 3             the threat of COVID-19 (aka the “Coronavirus”). The Governor issued Executive
                       Order N-25-20 and N-29-20, which directs Californians to follow public health
Ted Wood               directives including canceling large gatherings. Per the State of Emergency effective
Board Member
Division 4             March 2, 2020, the Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       proclaimed that a local emergency exists, and authorized remote teleconference
Jennifer Sheetz        meetings from September 22, 2022 through October 21, 2022 pursuant to Brown Act
Board Member           provisions.
Division 5

Brian Rice             The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of the
Board Member           Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all appropriate health
Division 7
                       safety precautions. If you would like to view the meeting via the Zoom
Gay Jones              Application, please contact Board Clerk Penilla via email at the address listed
Board Member           below.
Division 8

                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
                       reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance
                       of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable accommodations:

                                                                  Melissa Penilla
                                                                    Board Clerk
                                                                  (916) 859-4305
                                                         penilla.melissa@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.



                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2022


CALL TO ORDER
ROLL CALL
PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT
The Open Session Meeting is videotaped for cablecast on Metro Cable 14. Replay on Sunday,
October 16th at 12:00 noon and Monday, October 17th at 9:00pm on Channel 14; Webcast at
metro14live.saccounty.net.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN DISTRICT
JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and encourages public
interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public members desiring to address the
Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding officer and identify themselves for the record.
The presiding officer may in the interest of time and good order limit the number of public member
presentations. Speakers’ comments will be limited to three minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members of the Public
requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be present or have a
representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of issues to
committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval, declaration of surplus
equipment, and other consent matters. Consent Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board
member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                 Page No.
1.   Action Summary Minutes                                                        6
     Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board
     meeting of September 22, 2022.

2.      Authority to Reenter Voluntary Rate Range Program (VRRP) –                                                     10
        Intergovernmental Transfer (IGT) Program from January 1, 2021 through
        December 31, 2021
        Recommendation: Adopt a resolution reauthorizing the Fire Chief to enter into
        necessary agreements with DHCS to participate in the VRRP IGT covering the
        period of January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021.

3.      Parking Lot Lease – 7629 Greenback Lane                                                                       23
        Recommendation: Authorize the Fire Chief or his designee to execute the
        lease agreement for 7629 Greenback Lane.

4.      FY2019 Fire Prevention and Safety Grant – Award Amendment Approval                                            28
        Recommendation: Adopt a resolution authorizing the Final Budget amendment to
        the Grants Fund 212G.
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2022


5.    FY2020 State Homeland Security Grant – Award Amendment Approval                                                30
      Recommendation: Adopt a SHSGP20 Grant Amendment Resolution and
      corresponding budget amendment resolutions.

6.    Budget Amendment – Phase 2 Station Access Control Project Change Order                                         34
      Recommendation: Adopt the budget amendment resolutions for Phase 2
      station access control project change order.


ACTION ITEMS
1.   ImageTrend Contract Renewal & Test Site Implementation                                                          37
     (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
     Recommendation: Approve the ImageTrend contract renewal for three years.

2.    Ratification of Resolution to Extend Teleconference of Board                                                   43
      Meetings (Government Code 54953(e) (3)) (President Saylors)
      Recommendation: Consider adopting a Resolution which would extend the
      ability to teleconference without compliance of Government Code paragraph
      (3) of subdivision (b) of section 54953 from October 13, 2022 – November 11,
      2022 or until further re-ratified.

3.    Industrial Disability Retirement – Brian L. Currie                                                              **
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a
      Resolution finding Captain Currie has suffered job related injuries and is
      eligible for an Industrial Disability Retirement.

4.    Industrial Disability Retirement – Richard F. Turner                                                           **
      Recommendation: After discussion in Closed Session, consider adopting a
      Resolution finding Richard Turner has suffered job related injuries and is
      eligible for an Industrial Disability Retirement.


REPORTS
1.   PRESIDENT’S REPORT—(President Saylors)

2.    FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT—(Fire Chief Harms)
            OPERATIONS’ REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

3.    SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice President)

4.    COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
      10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.
      A.      Executive Committee – (President Saylors)
              Next Meeting: TBD

      B.      Communications Center JPA – (DC Wagaman)
              Report Out: October 11, 2022 at 9:00 AM
              Next Meeting: November 8, 2022 at 9:00 AM
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                               THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2022



      C.     Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Orzalli)
             Next Meeting: October 27, 2022 at TBD

      D.     Policy Committee – (Director Goold)
             Next Meeting: TBD

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION
1.   Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) – One (1) matter of
     Workers Compensation Compromise and Release.

      A.     Doug Dolezal and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
             Claim # SMDS - 550412 – Workers Compensation Settlement Authority –
             Jessica Valenti of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

2.    Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) – two (2) matters of
      Industrial Disability Retirement.

      A.     Brian Currie and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
             Claim # SMDQ - 550052 – Industrial Disability Retirement –
             Ty Bailey, Deputy Chief Administration

      B.     Richard Turner and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
             Claim #4A22010MQ9T-0001 – Industrial Disability Retirement –
             Ty Bailey, Deputy Chief Administration

3.    Conference with Labor Negotiator
      Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957.6
      A. District Negotiator:    Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      B. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Battalion Chiefs Bargaining Group,
                                Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      C. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Administrative Support Personnel (ASP)
                                Affiliate of Sacramento Area Fire Fighters Local 522

      D. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees

      E. District Negotiator:   Jack Hughes, Liebert Cassidy Whitmore
         Employee Organization: Non-Safety Senior Management, Management
                                and Unrepresented Confidential Employees
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2022



4.         PERSONNEL MATTERS – PUBLIC EMPLOYEE EMPLOYMENT
           Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957
           Fire Chief Selection Process

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, 10545
Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •     Regular Board Meeting – October 27, 2022 at 6:00 PM

The following action and presentation items are scheduled for the next board meeting agenda.
Board members are requested to identify additional action or presentation items they desire to
be scheduled on the agenda.

ANTICIPATED AGENDA ITEMS:                       TBD

Posted on October 10, 2022


______________________________________
Melissa Penilla, Clerk of the Board
* No written report
**       Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
