SACRAMENTO COUNTY COMMITTEE ON SCHOOL DISTRICT ORGANIZATION
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 VIA ZOOM/TELECONFERENCE CALL

AT THE CONCLUSION OF THE REGULAR 6:30 P.M. SACRAMENTO COUNTY BOARD OF
EDUCATION MEETING

MINUTES

1. CALL TO ORDER AND ROLL CALL

Chair Talamantes called the meeting to order at 8:35 p.m. via teleconference call in Sacramento,
California. Committee Members present were Joanne Ahola, Alfred Brown, Harold Fong, Paul
Keefer, Bina Lefkovitz, and Karina Talamantes. Committee Member Heather Davis attended via
Zoom video. Also, present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; Nicolas Schweizer,
Associate Superintendent; Jerry Jones, Executive Director; Shanine Coats, Director; other staff; and
Wende Watson, Executive Assistant.

Other staff present via teleconference were Brent Malicote and Jacqueline White, Assistant
Superintendents; Michael Kast and Rachel Perry, Executive Directors; and Tim Herrera, Director.

2. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

The pledge was recited during the Regular Board Meeting, which was held immediately prior to this
meeting.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Motion made by Committee Member Heather Davis and seconded by Committee Member Harold
Fong to approve the minutes of the County Committee Meeting of August 5, 2021.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried

Yes: Committee Members: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Al Brown,
Joanne Ahola, Karina Talamantes

4. ADOPTION OF AGENDA

Motion by Committee Member Paul Keefer and seconded by Committee Member Al Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried

Yes: Committee Members: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Al Brown,
Joanne Ahola, Karina Talamantes

5. VISITOR PRESENTATIONS


                                                                                                    1
There were no requests for presentations from the General Public.

6. NEW BUSINESS

Action: A. Public Hearing and Consideration of Potential Adjustment of Sacramento County Board of
Education Trustee Areas Based Upon 2020 Census - Teresa Stinson

Teresa Stinson, General Counsel, provided comments on this item. Representatives from
CooperativeStrategies, Justin Rich and Andrew Rich, provided an overview of the 2020 Census and
Redistricting.

Chair Talamantes opened the Public Hearing at 9:00 p.m.

After the presentation and discussion amongst Committee Members, Chair Talamantes asked the
demographer to return with a proposal that reduces the variance, provide a history of the basis for the
original maps, as well as alternative maps for consideration.

Ms. Stinson acknowledged the information requested from the Board and noted that SCOE will work
to provide additional background to assist the Board in making decisions about its trustee areas.

No action was taken.

Chair Talamantes closed the Public Hearing at 9:12 p.m.

7. ADJOURNMENT

Motion to Adjourn Meeting by Committee Member Paul Keefer and seconded by Committee Member
Harold Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried

Yes: Committee Members: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Al Brown,
Joanne Ahola, Karina Talamantes

Meeting adjourned 9:26 p.m.

Respectfully submitted:

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Committee

Date approved:




                                                                                                      2
