11/29/21, 1:32 PM                                                BoardDocs® Plus


Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda at 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, October 19, 2021

MINUTES - Unapproved
1. Call to Order and Roll Call
President Talamantes called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. via teleconference call in Sacramento,
California. Board members present were Joanne Ahola, Alfred Brown, Harold Fong, Paul Keefer, Bina
Lefkovitz, and Karina Talamantes. Trustee Heather Davis attended via Zoom video. Also present were
David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent;
Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; Jerry Jones, Executive Director; Shanine Coats, Director; other staff;
and Wende Watson, Executive Assistant.
Other staff present via teleconference were Nicolas Schweizer, Associate Superintendent; Brent
Malicote and Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendents; Coleen Johnson, Chief Administrator;
Michael Kast, Kristin Wright, Channa Cook-Harvey, and Rachel Perry, Executive Directors; and Tim
Herrera, Director.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
Trustee Ahola led the Pledge of Allegiance.
3. Approval of Minutes
Motion to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of September 14, 2021.
Motion by Trustee Alfred Brown, second by Trustee Harold Fong.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Alfred Brown, Joanne Ahola,
Karina Talamantes
4. Adoption of Agenda
Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented.
Motion by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Joanne Ahola.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Alfred Brown, Joanne Ahola,
Karina Talamantes
5. Official Correspondence - No Official Correspondence
6. Visitor Presentations - No Public Comments
Employee Organizations - No presentations
7. Superintendent’s Report
Recognition of the November 2021 Employees of the Month
Ron Skeahan, Para-educator/Severely Handicapped, Special Education Department, was not present to
receive his certificate recognizing him as Classified Employee of the Month for November.
Danielle Scarson and Abilene Lirio, Nurses, Special Education Department, were recognized and
honored as the Certificated Employees of the Month for November.
https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                        1/6
11/29/21, 1:32 PM                                                BoardDocs® Plus


Superintendent Gordon reported that COVID cases are leveling off and decreasing in many districts,
including the number of students quarantined. Sacramento City USD held a Special Board meeting
during which a resolution regarding vaccine mandates was approved. Twin Rivers USD is providing
booster shots for employees who had Pfizer vaccinations.
Superintendent Gordon provided the following report:

COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
Last week, he and Trustees Bina Lefkovitz, Heather Davis, and Alfred Brown toured the new Nathaniel
S. Colley, Sr. High School campus, including the makerspace area, several classrooms, and the Senior
Extension room. Many thanks to Principals Lisa Alcalá and Craig Bradford, and Assistant
Superintendent Jackie White for organizing the tour.
SENIOR EXTENSION
The Senior Extension Program is being recognized by the CSBA with a Golden Bell award. The award
will be presented during a special ceremony at the CSBA Conference in San Diego in
December. Congratulations to Principal Craig Bradford and the Senior Extension team that makes this
amazing program happen for students. The program is continuing to grow with 354 students and 31 in
Galt.

EL CENTRO
SCOE is working with the staff at the Youth Detention Facility (YDF) to support educational options as
the new VOYA program opens. Our culinary program will be hosting their tailgating competition
November 9 with students preparing a wide range of food you would enjoy at a tailgate!

SPECIAL EDUCATION UPDATE
Programs operating as normal, still struggling with subs and staffing para-educator positions. All staff are
either vaccinated or testing weekly.

SLY PARK SUPPER PROGRAM
Superintendent Gordon thanked the Sly Park kitchen team for taking on a project to support children and
families in Pollock Pines. On October 4, the cooks and crew began preparing meals for a supper
program in partnership with the Community Church of Pollock Pines. 44 people preregistered for the
program and one week later, 100 people are being served. The numbers are expected to grow. With the
support of the church and the local school district who helped with advertising this program, SCOE is
providing healthy dinners to many children and their families.
FALL CURRICULUM BREAKFAST
On Friday, October 15, the Curriculum and Instruction team hosted a curriculum breakfast that focused
on general statewide policy updates, bringing the whole-child design to action, and provided attendees
with updates on LCAP, accountability, and outcome data. Many thanks to presenters: Matt Navo,
Executive Director for the California Collaborative for Educational Excellence (CCEE); Katie
Brackenridge, Partnership Director at Turnaround for Children; Cathy Morrison, SCOE Coordinator in
Planning and Improvement; and Cathy White, SCOE Project Specialist for C-SAPA.

TEACHERS OF THE YEAR VISITS
In July, we honored our district’s Teachers of the Year and named the County Teachers of the Year for
2022. Since we didn’t have an in-person event, we took the awards presentation on the road. On
October 1, Superintendent Gordon visited Mandy Garner, an agriculture teacher at Liberty Ranch High
School in the Galt Joint Union High School District. We were joined by Galt Joint High School
Superintendent Lisa Pettis and Liberty Ranch Principal Joe Saramago. On October 6, he visited the
second County Teacher of the Year: Yvonne Thornton from the Folsom Cordova Unified School District.
Yvonne teaches math, study skills, and agriculture chemistry at Cordova High School. We were joined
https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                            2/6
11/29/21, 1:32 PM                                                BoardDocs® Plus

by Superintendent Sarah Koligian and Cordova High Principal Jerad Hyden.

WALK TO SCHOOL DAY
Superintendent Gordon offered special thanks to our Prevention and Early Intervention team for their
coordination of the local effort for National Walk to School Day, which was October 6. They were at Toby
Johnson Middle School in Elk Grove. The event highlights the health benefits of walking to school and
the need for safe places for students to walk and bike. Many thanks to our Prevention and Early
Intervention Team for their work on this project.

CA KIDS FIRE RELIEF UPDATE
Superintendent Gordon provided an update on “CA Kids Fire Relief.” We asked for donations of gift
cards and letters of support for the students in the fire regions. SCOE served as the collection point for
the donations for the affected schools, students, and families. The Small School District Association
organized the effort which has raised nearly $17,000 in donations. The number of heartfelt cards and
letters of support are still being counted. Many thanks to everyone who contributed, especially our
employee organizations – CSEA and SCOETA – who collected nearly $1,500 in gift cards and
donations.

MOSAC FACILITY TOUR
To express their appreciation for SCOE’s assistance, museum leaders have scheduled a private tour of
the Museum of Science and Curiosity (MOSAC). The tour is scheduled for November 8. Those
interested in joining the tour can contact Wende Watson.

WELCOME DARRIEN SLIDER-JOHNSON
Superintendent Gordon announced that Darrien Slider-Johnson has been selected as the new Chief
Administrator, Human Resources. Darrien comes to us from the Berryessa Union School District in San
Jose where she is the Assistant Superintendent of Human Resources. Prior to that role, Darrien served
as the Director of Human Resources with the Rescue Union School District. Darrien has over ten years’
experience as a principal and began her career as a teacher in the Monterey Unified School District. She
will join SCOE on November 1.
8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda
Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Alfred Brown, Joanne Ahola,
Karina Talamantes
By such action, the Board:

1. Accepted report on Personnel Transactions
2. Awarded diplomas to Court and Community Schools Students

Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendent, announced that the following students will be awarded a
diploma: Brandon Alvarez, Jasmine Nicole Anaya, William McKinley Garrett, and Lily Annie Saing from
Cordova Lane Senior Extension; 1 candidate from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School; Andrea Aviles,
Baquarion Icis Clark, Kayin Credic, Altagrasia Alicia Estrada, and Thi Thanh Truc Than from Elinor
Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension; and Kelsey D. Blas, Daniel Angelo Juarez, Mark Marlon Nelson, and
Taylor Rose Stull from North Area Senior Extension.
9. New Business - Approval of Contracts

https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                               3/6
11/29/21, 1:32 PM                                                BoardDocs® Plus

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Alfred Brown, Joanne Ahola,
Karina Talamantes
10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts and Accept
Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other Expenditures Associated
with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget - David W. Gordon
Action, Information: A. $487,274 American Rescue Plan - Homeless Children and Youth grant from the
California Department of Education for the 2021-2022, 2022-2023, and 2023-2024 fiscal years
On a motion by Trustee Harold Fong, second by Trustee Alfred Brown, the Board authorized staff to
submit grant applications/service contracts and accept funding if awarded; and approved contracts,
positions, and other expenditures associated with the grants as outlined in the proposed budgets.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Alfred Brown, Joanne Ahola,
Karina Talamantes
11. New Business - Other
Action: A. Approval of the 2020-2021 Budget Revision No. 4
Nicolas Schweizer, Associate Superintendent, provided comments on this item.
Motion by Trustee Harold Fong, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Alfred Brown, Joanne Ahola,
Karina Talamantes
Action: B. Approval of the 2020-2021 Unaudited Actuals Financial Report
Mr. Schweizer provided comments on this item.
Motion by Trustee Harold Fong, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Alfred Brown, Joanne Ahola,
Karina Talamantes
Action: C. Public Hearing and Adoption of Resolution No. 21-12 - Establishing the 2021-2022
Appropriations Limit
Mr. Schweizer provided comments on this item.

President Talamantes opened the Public Hearing at 7:07 p.m

There were no public comments.
President Talamantes closed the Public Hearing at 7:07 p.m.
Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Heather Davis.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried


https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                        4/6
11/29/21, 1:32 PM                                                BoardDocs® Plus

Yes: Trustees: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Alfred Brown, Joanne Ahola,
Karina Talamantes
Information: D. AGENDA ITEM REMOVED
Action: E. Consideration and Adoption of Resolution No. 21-13 - Regarding Teleconferenced Board
Meetings
Teresa Stinson, General Counsel, provided comments on this item.
Motion to adopt Resolution No. 21-13 - Regarding Teleconferenced Board Meetings
Motion by Trustee Alfred Brown, second by Trustee Joanne Ahola.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Alfred Brown, Joanne Ahola,
Karina Talamantes
Action: F. Approval of the 2021-2022 ESSER III Expenditure Plan
Jacqueline White and Michael Kast provided an overview of the 2021-2022 ESSER III Expenditure Plan.
Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Alfred Brown, Joanne Ahola,
Karina Talamantes
Information: G. Board Report - Sacramento County School Based Mental Health Update
Assistant Superintendent Brent Malicote, and School-Based Mental Health and Wellness Director Chris
Williams, provided the School Based Mental Health update.
12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas
A. Board Members
Trustee Lefkovitz - no report.

Trustee Keefer - no report.

Trustee Fong asked if SCOE could partner with SJUSD to provide support to the Afghan immigrants
during the holidays. He acknowledged that SCOE had assisted with the opening of the science center
and would like to see our names on a plaque at the facility, and asked what may be planned for
recognition during the upcoming visit.

Trustee Davis - no report.

Trustee Brown - no report.

Trustee Ahola - no report.

B. Board President

President Talamantes - no report.

C. Committees

https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                        5/6
11/29/21, 1:32 PM                                                BoardDocs® Plus

There were no committee reports.

13. Items for Distribution

A. October/November Events

There was no distribution of the October/November Events.

B. October/November Site Visits

There was no distribution of the October November Site Visits item.

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. November 16, 2021

B. December 14, 2021

15. Adjournment

Action: A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion by Trustee Harold Fong, second by Trustee Paul Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees: Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Alfred Brown, Joanne Ahola,
Karina Talamantes

Meeting adjourned at 8:27 p.m.

Respectively submitted,


David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                        6/6
