Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, January 14, 2025

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Brown called the regular meeting to order at 6:32 p.m.

Other Board members present: Harold Fong, Paul Keefer, Bina Lefkovitz, and Vanessa
Caigoy. SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing Students Judith Marquez was
present.

Board members Mariana Corona Sabeniano and Heather Davis were absent.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Dr.
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendent Nicolas Schweizer, Assistant Superintendents Michael Kast and
Jacqueline “Jackie” White; Executive Directors Xanthi Soriano, Kristin Wright, and Jerry
Jones; Human Resources Chief Administrator Darrien Slider-Johnson, and Executive
Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Keefer led the Pledge of Allegiance. President Brown read the Land
Acknowledgement.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

There was one public comment from Shatayia Baker regarding the state of education of
Black Students in Sacramento County.

B. Employee Organizations

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of October 22, 2024




01.14.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         1
Motion to approve by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Brown, Caigoy
Absent: Corona Sabeniano, Davis

B. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of November 12, 2024

Motion to approve by Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Brown, Caigoy
Absent: Corona Sabeniano, Davis

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Trustee Caigoy moved to adopt the agenda, with the following change, postpone
Agenda Item 11.C. regarding ACCBE Membership Resolution to the February 4, 2025
Board meeting, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Keefer, Fong, Brown, Caigoy
Abstain: Lefkovitz
Absent: Corona Sabeniano, Davis

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Youth Report

A. College and Career Youth Mentors - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent Jackie White introduced Project Specialist Tania Hernandez
who presented the College and Career Youth Mentors report.

7. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following;

SCOE’s Annual Winter Celebration took place on December 11. The theme was a
“Celebration of Lights.” Events included the Winter Warm-up, hosted by our Early
Learning team which is headed by Dr. Julie Montali, and a fun Team Time event,
followed by the Luminous Lane Tour which brought staff from different offices closer
together.




01.14.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         2
On December 18, there was a graduation at El Centro. There were five graduates.
Thank you, Trustee Lefkovitz, for attending.

During the months of November and December, we offered several opportunities for
staff to participate in the civic activity of giving back to the community. Through this
effort we were able to provide 73 SCOE students with holiday meals to share with their
families, and there are funds left for next year.

The Academic Decathlon - “Our Changing Climate” - will be held Saturday, February 1,
at the Folsom High School Gymnasium located in Folsom. The Super Quiz begins at
1:30 p.m. and is a friendly but competitive academic rivalry as teams of students from
throughout the county engage and are cheered on by parents and family members. The
Academic Decathlon Awards Ceremony will also be held on February 1 at the same
location.

The California Civic Learning Summit is scheduled for February 5-6 at the California
Museum in Sacramento. You are invited to join a broad audience of K-12 teachers,
school administrators, school board members, policymakers, and others. We will hear
from keynote speakers Tani Cantil-Sakauye, CEO of the Public Policy Institute of
California on Day 1, and the Honorable Patricia Guerrero, Chief Justice of California on
Day 2. Other topics include Civic Learning in Elementary Schools, Implementing Civic
Learning within the School Program from a school administrator perspective, and more.
The Civic Learning Youth Summit is offered on the same days and is intended for high
school students.

Also, on February 5, our School of Education will host its Poetry Out Loud competition
at the SCOE Conference Center. This exceptional arts competition complements our
literacy initiative, offering students an opportunity to showcase their language skills
through a creative and artistic approach.

On Monday, February 10, we will hold the final Mock Trial at the Federal Courthouse.
The award ceremony starts at 8:00 p.m. at the Library Galleria in Sacramento.

Our annual Student Art Wall Calendar, Student Expressions 2025, is now available and
features 12 unique pieces of student art, created by students from SCOE’s Foundations
Academy, Early Head Start, and court/community school programs.

The Governor released his 2025-2026 Budget on January 10. The Governor’s Budget
reflects a balanced budget with no deficits and a projected $16.5 billion increase in
revenue over a three-year period. In addition, Proposition 98 levels are projected to
increase by approximately $7.5 billion over the three-year period relative to the 2024
Budget Act. This increase is sufficient to fund a 2.43% Cost of Living Adjustment
(COLA) for the Local Control Funding Formula and to fully implement Universal
Transitional Kindergarten and the Expanded Learning Opportunities Program which
funds before, after, and summer instruction and enrichment. There is also increased
funding to support literacy instruction and to provide a $1.8 billion discretionary block



01.14.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                              3
grant to schools. The Governor’s Budget notes that California begins 2025 in a stronger
fiscal position than it has in recent years, but the state’s current fiscal outlook
underscores the need for continued vigilance to strengthen budget resiliency and fiscal
stability. An additional risk in 2025 comes from stated policy changes by the incoming
federal administration that could negatively impact California’s economy. As such, the
state’s ongoing commitments will be examined over the coming months and necessary
adjustments will be proposed at the May Revision, when a clearer view of the state’s
finances emerges.

SCOE is launching its Civic Learning Initiative for Elementary Schools, a professional
development program consisting of a three-day Civic Learning Institute starting this
month (January 28, 29, and March 25). The institute is designed for teachers of grades
3-6 and will build educators' capacity to integrate civic learning into their existing
curricula. In addition, this institute will introduce teachers to the new Sacramento County
Civic Recognition Program, which will honor younger students who meet certain civic
action criteria aligned with the high school State Seal of Civic Engagement. Participants
will gain tools to help students meet the Sacramento County Civic Engagement
Recognition Program criteria and prepare them for the State Seal of Civic Engagement
in high school.

B. Recognition of the February Employees of the Month - Xanthi Soriano

Teagan Hackbarth, Transition Specialist with Court and Community Schools, was
recognized and honored as the Classified Employee of the Month for February 2025.

Joe Linehan, Program Specialist of Assistive Technology with Special Education, was
recognized and honored as the Certificated Employee of the Month for February 2025.

8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Brown, Caigoy
Absent: Corona Sabeniano, Davis

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White/
   Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendent White announced that 41 students will be awarded diplomas:
13 candidates at Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. - Senior Extension, seven candidates at
Cordova Lane Senior Extension, two candidates at El Centro Jr./Sr. High School, eight



01.14.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           4
candidates at Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension, and 11 candidates at North Area
Senior Extension.

9. New Business - Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

A. Approval of Contracts - Nicolas Schweizer

Motion by Trustee Caigoy to approve contracts as presented except for the Seaton
Consulting, Inc. contract; second by Trustee Keefer.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Brown, Caigoy
Absent: Corona Sabeniano, Davis

Motion to approve the Seaton Consulting, Inc. contract by Trustee Caigoy, second by
Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Brown, Caigoy
Absent: Corona Sabeniano, Davis

10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget -
David W. Gordon

Motion by Trustee Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Fong to authorize to submit grant
applications/service contracts and accept funding if awarded, and approval of contracts,
positions, and other expenditures associated with the grants as outlined in the proposed
budget.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Brown, Caigoy
Absent: Corona Sabeniano, Davis

A. Universal Prekindergarten Mixed Delivery Planning Grant Round 3 - Dr. Channa Pitt
Motion to approve.

B. High Road Training Partnership Health Care Grant - Shanine Coats

C. California Center for Inclusive College Grant - Kristin Wright

11. New Business - Other

A. Board Report: Dashboard Data and Differentiated Assistance - Dr. Nancy Herota




01.14.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          5
Deputy Superintendent Herota introduced our Dashboard Data and Differentiated
Assistance Board report. Amber Jacobo, Director, Continuous Improvement and
Support, also participated in the presentation of this report. From the Center Unified
School District, Scott Loehr, Superintendent, and Mike Jordan, Director of Curriculum,
Instruction, and Special Education, were present to make comments.

B. Board Report: The Power of Positive Adult Relationships Through Mentoring -
Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent White introduced Jane Collier, Director of College and Career
Readiness, who presented the Power of Positive Adult Relationships through Mentoring
Board report. Project Specialists Lindsay Cathcart Pennetta and Tania Hernandez
participated in the presentation as well.

C. Adoption of Board Resolution No. 25-01 - Approving Membership in Association of
   California County Boards of Education - Teresa Stinson

This item was deferred to the February 4, 2025 Board Meeting.

12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing Students Marquez asked if a written
description of the role of student board member exists, and if not, proposed that one be
developed.

Trustee Fong reported that ACCBE is hosting trainings later this month and in February,
and they are publishing their own handbook for county board members. He expressed
appreciation to staff for the review of Resolution 17-05 In Support of Creating a Safe
and Positive Learning Environment. He requested that staff be prepared to manage
encounters with Immigration and Customs Enforcement should they occur - with the
emphasis on the protection of our students. Trustee Fong stated that he has information
regarding Miracle University that he wishes to share with the Board and proposed that it
be placed on a future agenda. He stated that he plans to attend the Annual National
School Boards Association Conference in Atlanta, Georgia.

Trustee Lefkovitz stated that she, along with members of the Literacy Coalition, is
scheduled to make public comments at District Board meetings regarding SCOE’s
Literacy Resolution to encourage districts to adopt a similar resolution. She invited the
other Board members to participate. She expressed appreciation for the opportunity to
tour the Special Education programs with Assistant Superintendent Michael Kast and
Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota.

Trustee Caigoy expressed compassion for LACOE staff and schools impacted by the
wildfires.



01.14.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                              6
Superintendent Gordon stated that he has been in contact with Los Angeles County
Superintendent of Schools to offer SCOE’s support as they recover. SCOE is prepared
to provide services at the appropriate time.

Trustee Caigoy stated her appreciation to the Superintendent and SCOE staff for their
efforts and commitment around serving our Black students and closing the achievement
gap. Trustee Caigoy stated that she drafted a resolution with education partners and
other community members for the Board to consider and provide feedback. She
proposed that her resolution be adopted at the February 18, 2025 Board meeting.

Trustee Lefkovitz stated her support of the resolution presented by Trustee Caigoy to
demonstrate SCOE’s commitment to closing the achievement gap for the lowest
performing subgroup.

Trustee Keefer thanked Assistant Superintendent White for her support of various
projects that she has been working on. He expressed compassion for the victims of the
wildfires in Southern California. He asked if there will be robust data available for the
progress of the reading initiative and asks that we publish it, as well as data for the
Black Students initiative. He would like to see the suspension rates and academic data
by county and districts tracked by SCOE so we can see how we are making a
difference. Trustee Keefer stated that being able to see the data will make it easier to
have a noticeable and positive effect on outcomes.

B. Board President

President Brown had no report.

C. Committees

13. Items for Distribution

A. January Events and Site Visits

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. February 4, 2025 and February 18, 2025

15. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to adjourn the meeting in honor and recognition of those affected by the fires in
Southern California, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Brown, Caigoy



01.14.25 Board Meeting Minutes                                                              7
Absent: Corona Sabeniano, Davis

The meeting adjourned at 8:51 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




01.14.25 Board Meeting Minutes       8
