11/29/21, 10:54 AM                                               BoardDocs® Plus

Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda

Tuesday, November 16, 2021 at 6:30 p.m.

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Talamantes called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. via teleconference call in Sacramento,
California. Members present were Bina Lefkovitz, Paul Keefer, Harold Fong, Heather Davis, Alfred
Brown, Joanne Ahola, and Karina Talamantes. Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and
Secretary to the Board; Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; Brent Malicote and Jacqueline White,
Assistant Superintendents; Nicolas Schweizer, Associate Superintendent; Jerry Jones and Michael Kast,
Executive Directors; Shanine Coats, Kristin Wright, and Channa Cook-Harvey, Directors; other staff; and
Wende Watson, Executive Assistant.

2. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Brown lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

3. Approval of Minutes

Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of September 28, 2021

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Approval of the Minutes of the Board/Superintendent Study Session of October 5, 2021

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Heather Davis.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Abstain: Trustee Alfred Brown

4. Adoption of Agenda

Trustee Lefkovitz read from the TPNA Land Acknowledgement and requested that it be added to the
record here:

"In the spirit of truthfulness, transparency, and reconciliation around systems that have oppressed and
excluded Indigenous people, we open our meeting with a land acknowledgement. We know that
education can help shift historically oppressive practices to build a more inclusive and socially conscious
community and society.

By including an Indigenous Peoples land acknowledgement at the start of our meeting, we are
recognizing that Sacramento, and our neighborhood which we love so much, is the ancestral homeland
of the Nisenan, Maidu, Miwok, and Me-Wuk peoples, and that these people have been dispossessed
and displaced from their ancestral homelands and territories due to a variety of colonial and historical
reasons.



https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                           1/6
11/29/21, 10:54 AM                                               BoardDocs® Plus

Land acknowledgements are not about placing blame. These statements are the first step towards
building a more inclusive future where we eliminate the ongoing erasure of Indigenous People’s voices,
lives, and history. Our land acknowledgement statement may be your first experience hearing about the
Indigenous Peoples in the area, which provides an opportunity to seed the path for learning and for
respect to blossom and grow.

I invite you to learn more about Indigenous people through your own research, including at our local
State Indian Museum at 2618 K Street."

Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented.

Motion by Trustee Harold Fong, second by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

5. Official Correspondence - No Official Correspondence

6. Visitor Presentations - No Public Comments

Employee Organizations - No presentations

7. Superintendent’s Report

Recognition of the December 2021 Employees of the Month

Chris Goates, Re-Entry Transition Specialist, was recognized and honored as the classified employee of
the month for December.

Joe Wilson, CTE Instructor, Nursery, Landscaper, and Ground Maintenance, was recognized and
honored as the certificated employee of the month for December.

Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
All Community School programs are running well, and staff continue to serve students at a high level.
Our nonprofit partners continue to be a source of support for staff and students. We now have 30
students enrolled at Colley, and we have a total of 25 students enrolled at Hickey.

SENIOR EXTENSION
We have 379 enrolled with 7 new students pending. Galt is up to 37 students.

EL CENTRO
We are continuing to work with Probation to design educational services for the students that will be
housed in Valley Oak Youth Authority (VOYA). Programs at the Youth Detention Facility (YDF) will
include expanded CTE and early college programming.

SPECIAL EDUCATION UPDATE
Programs are running well. Staff members are doing an amazing job of following safety protocols while
educating students. Staffing paraprofessionals and substitutes remains a challenge. When COVID cases
occur requiring staff and/or students to quarantine, staff has always been willing to switch to different

https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                          2/6
11/29/21, 10:54 AM                                               BoardDocs® Plus

sites as needed to ensure that all programs can stay open. Many of our programs have resumed doing
Community Based Instruction and the students and staff are greatly enjoying the journey back to normal.

SCOE BOARD POLICIES ONLINE
Superintendent Gordon announced that with the implementation of BoardDocs to create and post our
Board meeting agendas, we now can post our Board policies online. The policies are easy to find on the
website. Once entering the BoardDocs page, you will find a “Policies” tab in the upper right corner of the
page. Clicking on that will give you access to our Board policies. If you need any assistance, please
contact Jerry Jones or Wende Watson.

STUDENT MENTAL HEALTH AND WELLNESS PLANNING PROCESS
SCOE is partnering with Sacramento County Department of Health Services, Behavioral Health Services
to launch a participatory process to develop a new multi-year plan for student mental health and
wellness in Sacramento County. The plan will build on previous and ongoing collaborative efforts,
including the School Based Mental Health and Wellness Partnership and the Safe Zone Squad, and the
previous Student Mental Health and Wellness 10-year plan. On November 30, we will take part in a
public outreach session on the 10-year plan. We can provide you with the Zoom link if you are interested
in attending. The SCOE Communications Office will assist in aggressively publicizing this outreach event
on social media.

MOSAC FACILITY TOUR
Superintendent Gordon thanked the leaders of the Museum of Science and Curiosity (MOSAC) for
hosting a tour on November 8. The tour was led by Michele Wong, MOSAC’s Executive Director. It is an
amazing and entertaining facility. The museum’s grand opening was November 13. Thanks also to
Board President Talamantes, Vice-President Keefer, and Trustees Lefkovitz, Fong, Ahola, and Brown, as
well as Mrs. Brown, for joining us on the tour.

PERSONNEL COMMISSION APPOINTMENT
With the retirement of Personnel Commissioner Cathy Broyles, Superintendent Gordon
is recommending the appointment of Sherry Hansen as a replacement. Ms. Hansen was employed by
SCOE for 14 years, most recently serving as Coordinator, Information and Compensation Services, and
has over 18 years of Merit System experience. A public hearing will be held to consider and act on the
appointment at the December 14 Board meeting.

INTRODUCTION OF DARRIEN SLIDER-JOHNSON
Superintendent Gordon introduced Darrien Slider-Johnson, SCOE's new Chief Administrator, Human
Resources, beginning in December. Darrien is replacing Coleen Johnson, who is retiring. She previously
served as the Assistant Superintendent of Human Resources for Berryessa Union School District. Prior
to that, she served as the Director of Human Resources with the Rescue Union School District. She has
more than ten years of experience as a school principal. Darrien began her career as a Bilingual teacher
in the Monterey Unified School District. She was born and raised in Sacramento and attended
kindergarten through 12th grade in the Sacramento City Unified School District. She earned an
Associate Degree in English from Sacramento City College. She also holds a bachelor’s degree in
International Relations from the University of California. Darrien served on the ACSA Region-Two Equity
Achievement and Diversity for Student Success Committee.

Superintendent Gordon also thanked Coleen for her contributions to SCOE. She has helped steer us
through these challenging COVID times. She has been so innovative and forward thinking and we
https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                          3/6
11/29/21, 10:54 AM                                               BoardDocs® Plus

greatly appreciate all she’s done and will miss her greatly.

Darrien expressed her appreciation and excitement about taking this role on at SCOE.

8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda.

Motion by Trustee Heather Davis, second by Trustee Joanne Ahola.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola


B. Report on Personnel Transactions - Coleen Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students – Jacqueline White/Michael Kast

Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendent, announced that the following students will be awarded a
diploma: Maria Christina Flores, Indya Tiye Marie Guery, Liza Michelle Henderson, Angelina Anna Ly,
Rayna A. Malan, Tyrice Lawrence Martin, Nagina Momand, Zaira Paola Jaimes Morales, and Aaron
Varnell from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. Senior Extension; three candidates from El Centro Jr./Sr. High
School; Ayeana Antoinette Tramble from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension; and Denisecia Keys
from Leo A. Palmiter Jr./Sr. High School.

9. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. Motion to approve contracts.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Harold Fong.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts and Accept
Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other Expenditures Associated
with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget – David W. Gordon

A. Motion to approve Title III County Office of Education Regional English Learner Specialists
Agreement Grant.

Motion by Trustee Harold Fong, second by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

11. New Business – Other

A. Consideration and Adoption of Resolution 21-15 - Teleconferenced Board Meetings

Teresa Stinson, General Counsel, provided information on this item.

Motion to approve.

https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                         4/6
11/29/21, 10:54 AM                                               BoardDocs® Plus

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

B. 2020-2021 Annual Report of Sacramento County Williams Reviews (Information)

Ms. Stinson provided information on this item and responded to Board member

questions.

C. Educator Effectiveness Block Grant (Information)

Jacqueline White, Assistant Superintendent, provided comments on this item.

D. Adoption of Resolution No. 21-14 - In Support of Kindergarten-Community Colleges Public Education
Facilities Bond Act of 2022 (AB 75)

Nicolas Schweizer, Associate Superintendent, provided comments on this item.

Motion to approve.

Motion by Trustee Harold Fong, second by Trustee Paul Keefer.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola


E. Vision, Mission, and Goals - David W. Gordon

Monica Eisel, Facilitator, presented this item. Shanine Coats, Director, Strategic Initiatives, also provided
comments. A discussion followed. President Talamantes proposed that this item is brought back in a
future meeting.

12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Ahola - no report.

Trustee Brown - no report.

Trustee Lefkovitz passed out a document regarding DEI and asked Board members to reflect on these
to keep a focus on DEI.

Trustee Keefer is reading Dare to Lead by Brene Brown and suggested that it might be a good read for
the Board.

Trustee Fong would like to bring the work of SCOE’s Senior Extension to the Board's attention and
emphasized how important this work is and impactful for students. He also mentioned an article about
the closing ofthe Juvenile facilities and bringing them to the county level and would like to see a plan
for what SCOEwill be doing starting in 2022.

Trustee Davis expressed regret that she was unable to join the Board for the MOSAC – Museum of
Science and Curiosity - tour. At her new job in her mail shop, she had the opportunity to meet a
customer getting fingerprinted that was enrolledin the SCOE teacher credential program.
https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                             5/6
11/29/21, 10:54 AM                                               BoardDocs® Plus


B. Board President - President Talamantes expressed her pleasure at seeing employees get honored via
the Employee of the Month program. On Friday, she worked a vaccination clinic for youth ages 5-11
years old.

C. Committees – No reports from committees.

13. Items for Distribution

A. November/December Events
B. November/December Site Visits

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. December 14, 2021
B. January 11, 2022

15. Adjournment

Motion to Adjourn Meeting.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Heather Davis.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee Harold Fong,
Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Meeting adjourned 7:57 p.m.

Respectively submitted,




David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board

Date approved:




https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/scoe/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#                                      6/6
