                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
     Todd Harms
      Fire Chief
                                           BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING

                                          Thursday, October 27, 2022 – 6:00 PM
                                               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Cinthia Saylors                                     10545 Armstrong Avenue
Board President
Division 1
                                                   Board Room – Second Floor
                                                        Mather, California
D’Elman Clark                                                   &
Board Vice President
Division 6                                             Remotely Via Zoom
                                                      Phone: (669) 900-6833
Walt White
Board Secretary                                    Webinar ID: 826 4635 7380#
Division 9                                           Passcode: 785 863 730#
Grant Goold
Board Member
                           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                     and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Randy Orzalli
Board Member
                       The Governor has declared a State of Emergency to exist in California as a result of
Division 3             the threat of COVID-19 (aka the “Coronavirus”). The Governor issued Executive
                       Order N-25-20 and N-29-20, which directs Californians to follow public health
Ted Wood               directives including canceling large gatherings. Per the State of Emergency effective
Board Member
Division 4             March 2, 2020, the Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       proclaimed that a local emergency exists, and authorized remote teleconference
Jennifer Sheetz        meetings from October 13, 2022 through November 11, 2022 pursuant to Brown Act
Board Member           provisions.
Division 5

Brian Rice             The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of the
Board Member           Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all appropriate health
Division 7
                       safety precautions. If you would like to view the meeting via the Zoom
Gay Jones              Application, please contact Board Clerk Penilla via email at the address listed
Board Member           below.
Division 8

                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
                       reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
                       reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance
                       of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable accommodations:

                                                                  Melissa Penilla
                                                                    Board Clerk
                                                                  (916) 859-4305
                                                         penilla.melissa@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.



                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2022


CALL TO ORDER
ROLL CALL
PLEDGE TO FLAG
METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT
The Open Session Meeting is videotaped for cablecast on Metro Cable 14. Replay on Sunday,
October 30th at 12:00 noon and Monday, October 31st at 6:00pm on Channel 14; Webcast at
metro14live.saccounty.net.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN DISTRICT
JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and encourages public
interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public members desiring to address the
Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding officer and identify themselves for the record.
The presiding officer may in the interest of time and good order limit the number of public member
presentations. Speakers’ comments will be limited to three minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of
Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members of the Public
requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be present or have a
representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of issues to
committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval, declaration of surplus
equipment, and other consent matters. Consent Agenda is acted upon as one unit unless a Board
member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                 Page No.
1.   Action Summary Minutes                                                      5
     Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular Board
     meeting of October 13, 2022.

2.      Surplus Vehicle Designation                                                                                  11
        Recommendation: Adopt a Resolution establishing a list of surplus vehicles,
        and sell or donate the vehicles as deemed appropriate by the Fire Chief.
Presentation Item
1.    Letter of Commendation – June 24, 2022 Incident (Deputy Chief Mitchell)                                          *
      Sacramento Metro Fire Captain Shawn Lemon, 42C
      Sacramento Metro Firefighter Tucker Hodge, 42C
      Sacramento Sheriff’s Sergeant Devin Card
      Sacramento Sheriff’s Deputy Codi Lopez
      Sacramento Sheriff’s Deputy Ambar Vicente-Rivas
      Sacramento Sheriff’s Deputy Remar Pasalo
      Sacramento Sheriff’s Deputy Christopher Guerra
      Sacramento Sheriff’s Deputy Shea Lukes
      Sacramento Sheriff’s Deputy Daniel Duran
      Sacramento Sheriff’s Deputy Jesus Oliver
      Recommendation: Receive the presentation, no action required.
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2022


ACTION ITEMS

1.   Notice of Award - RFP 22-04 Fire Station Architecture and                                                      14
     Engineering Services (Erin Castleberry, Administrative Analyst)
     Recommendation: Adopt a resolution and authorize the Fire Chief to execute
     and administer an agreement materially similar to the draft attached with the
     highest ranked proposer or second highest ranked proposer, should an agreement
     not be reached with the former.


REPORTS
1.   PRESIDENT’S REPORT—(President Saylors)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT—(Fire Chief Harms)
           OPERATIONS’ REPORT – (Deputy Chief Mitchell)

3.   SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
     10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.
     A.      Executive Committee – (President Saylors)
             Next Meeting: November 4, 2022 at TBD

     B.      Communications Center JPA – (DC Wagaman)
             Next Meeting: November 8, 2022 at 9:00 AM

     C.      Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Orzalli)
             Report Out: October 27, 2022 at 5:00 PM
             Next Meeting: TBD

     D.      Policy Committee – (Director Goold)
             Next Meeting: November 10, 2022 at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

CLOSED SESSION

1.   Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) – one (1) matter of
     Workers Compensation Settlement Authority.
     A.    Daniel Faulkner and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
           Claim # SMDK - 549816 – Workers’ Compensation Settlement Authority – Colin
           Connor of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

2.   Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54956.9 (a) – two (2) matters of
     Workers Compensation Compromise and Release.
     A.    David Burnett and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
           Claim # SMDS - 550455 – Workers’ Compensation Settlement Authority –
           Colin Connor of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2022



           B.      Edwin Crawford Jr. and the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   Claim # 4A21108220F-0001 – Workers’ Compensation Settlement Authority –
                   Colin Connor of Lenahan, Slater, Pearse & Majernik, LLP

3.         CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL – ANTICIPATED LITIGATION –
           Significant Exposure to litigation pursuant to California Government Code
           Section 54956.9 (b): One case
           A. Claim Against Public Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 910
               Jaysa Harrison v. Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               Deputy Chief Bailey

CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT


ADJOURNMENT


NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District, 10545
Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

     •     Regular Board Meeting – November 10, 2022 at 6:00 PM

The following action and presentation items are scheduled for the next board meeting agenda.
Board members are requested to identify additional action or presentation items they desire to
be scheduled on the agenda.

ANTICIPATED AGENDA ITEMS:                       TBD

Posted on October 24, 2022


______________________________________
Melissa Penilla, Clerk of the Board
* No written report
**       Separate Attachment

DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
