NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING and AGENDA - SACRAMENTO COUNTY COMMITTEE ON
SCHOOL DISTRICT ORGANIZATION - Center Joint Unified School District, Roseville
City School District, and Roseville Joint Union High School District

Saturday, February 25, 2023 at 10:00 a.m.

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Call to Order and Roll Call

Committee Chair Keefer called the meeting to order at 10:02 a.m. at the Center Joint Unified
School District, District Annex - Board Room, 3243 Center Court Lane, Antelope, California.
Other Committee Members present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Harold Fong, Alfred Brown,
and Joanne Ahola. Committee Members Heather Davis and Bina Lefkovitz were absent.

Also present were Superintendent David W. Gordon; SCOE Associate General Counsel
Barbara Liebert; Executive Director Jerry Jones; and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

B. Pledge of Allegiance

Committee Member Brown led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. General Public

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Motion by Committee Member Fong to approve of the minutes of the County Committee
   Meeting of June 11, 2022; second by Committee Member Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Committee Members Keefer, Fong, Brown
Abstain: Committee Members Corona Sabeniano, Ahola
Absent: Committee Members Davis, Lefkovitz

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion by Committee Member Ahola to adopt the agenda; second by Committee Member
   Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Committee Members Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Brown, Ahola
Absent: Committee Members Davis, Lefkovitz

5. NEW BUSINESS - Center Joint Unified School District, Roseville City School District,
and Roseville Joint Union High School District



02.25.23 County Committee Meeting Minutes                                                  1
A. Notice of Public Hearing - Proposed Transfer of Territory from Center Joint Unified
   School District to Roseville City School District and Roseville Joint Union High School
   District

B. Proposed Transfer of Territory from Center Joint Unified School District to Roseville City
   School District and Roseville Joint Union High School District - Teresa Stinson

Associate General Counsel Barbara Liebert explained the purpose of this hearing which is to
hear the proposal regarding the transfer of territory from Center Joint Unified School District to
Roseville City School District and Roseville Joint Union High School District and hold a public
hearing. No action will be taken today.

Lead Petitioner Melissa Campbell presented the proposal regarding the territory transfer.

Superintendent Scott Loehr from the Center Joint Unified School District made a presentation.

Amy Banks, Associate Superintendent, from the Roseville City School District made a
presentation.

Pete Constant, Board President from the Roseville Joint Union High School District, made a
presentation.

The Public Hearing opened at 10:28 a.m.

The following individuals made public comments in favor of the transfer: Laura Dinkel,
Dayna Campbell, Charles Aquino, Ted Selby, Casey Campbell, Beth Abel, and Sandy Bryant.

The Public Hearing closed at 10:42 a.m.

Committee Members asked questions which were responded to by the various representatives
from Center JUSD, Roseville City SD, and Roseville JUHSD.

6. ADJOURNMENT

A. Motion to adjourn the meeting by Committee Member Ahola, second by Committee Member
Corona Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Committee Members Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Brown, Ahola
Absent: Committee Members Davis, Lefkovitz

The meeting was adjourned at 10:48 a.m.

Respectfully submitted,


David W. Gordon
Secretary to the County Committee

Date approved:


02.25.23 County Committee Meeting Minutes                                                       2
