Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda - 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, February 18, 2025

MINUTES

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comment Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Brown called the regular meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.

Other Board members present: Harold Fong, Paul Keefer, Bina Lefkovitz, Mariana
Corona Sabeniano, Heather Davis, and Vanessa Caigoy. SCOE Appointed Board
Member Representing Students Judith Marquez was present.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Dr.
Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendents Nicolas Schweizer and Brent Malicote, Assistant Superintendents
Michael Kast and Jacqueline “Jackie” White; Executive Directors Xanthi Soriano and
Jerry Jones; Human Resources Chief Administrator Darrien Slider-Johnson, Director
Shanine Coats, and Executive Assistant Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Caigoy led the Pledge of Allegiance.
President Brown read a Land Acknowledgement.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comment

There were three public comments:

Patricia Rodriguez, parent of student, would like to transfer her student from Elk Grove
USD to Sacramento City USD.

Victoria Logan, parent of student who is enrolled at Miracle University, spoke in support
of the school.


February 18, 2025 Minutes                                                                  1
Mayra Aboytes, parent of Miracle University graduate, expressed interest in having her
niece enrolled in Miracle University.

B. Employee Organizations

There were no presentations from employee organizations.

3. Approval of Minutes

A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of January 14, 2025

Motion by Trustee Keefer, second by Trustee Fong.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Brown, Caigoy
Abstain: Corona Sabeniano, Davis

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Adoption of Agenda

Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented by Trustee Caigoy, second
by Trustee Corona Sabeniano.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Brown, Caigoy, Corona Sabeniano, Davis

5. Official Correspondence

A. There was no official correspondence.

6. Youth Report

A. Youth Report - Youth Civic Learning Summit - Shanine Coats

Director Shanine Coats introduced the Youth Civic Learning Summit Report. Charley
Gilmore, Curriculum Specialist, introduced six high school students that attended the
summit to talk about their experience at the Summit.

7. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

On February 5th and 6th, in collaboration with the Civic Education Center, Teach
Democracy, and the Public Policy Institute of California, SCOE hosted a two-day

February 18, 2025 Minutes                                                                2
California Civic Learning Summit at the California Museum in Sacramento. Thank you,
Trustee Lefkovitz for attending our opening day. The Civic Learning Summit included a
Youth Summit which was well attended by students from Sacramento and Fresno.

This year’s Poetry Out Loud winner was from Elk Grove High School, Jash Rosal. The
Runner Up was Ember Hall from Natomas Charter School. Both their recitations were
outstanding.

Thank you, Board President Brown, and Trustees Davis, Keefer, and Lefkovitz, and
SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing Students Marquez for attending our
Sacramento County School Boards Association dinner meeting. Our keynote speaker
was Kevin Gordon, President of Capitol Advisors.

On February 10, the Mock Trial Final was held at the Federal Courthouse. Sacramento
Country Day School took first place followed by Natomas Pacific Pathways in second.
Dennis Cota served as the judge.

On February 11, several SCOE staff met with the Field Representative from Senator
Padilla’s District Office to discuss educational priorities for our region, and to share
some of SCOE’s key initiatives, including, placing a mental health clinician in every
school and Sacramento READS. Our meeting went well, and we know we have an
advocate for education, and in particular for our English Language learners and
students from immigrant families.

On February 12, SCOE held an exciting convening focused on educator agency and
leadership in AVID—a program that has been transforming student success for 45
years. In Region 3, SCOE and our Capital Metro AVID team have been proud partners
in supporting TK-12 educators. The convening brought together education leaders,
teachers, and advocates to discuss the role of relationships, collaboration, and strategic
leadership in ensuring that every student has the tools and support needed to succeed.
A highlight of the event was the keynote address by AVID CEO Dr. Thuan Nguyen. Dr.
Nguyen’s journey from Vietnamese refugee to national education leader is a testament
to the power of public education and dedicated educators. Thank you, Associate
Superintendent Brent Malicote, Director Lindsay Paoli, and your team, for leading this
effort.

SCOE conferred diplomas to and celebrated five graduates from El Centro on February
12. Each spoke with eloquence, thanking their teachers and SCOE Administration for
their support. Thank you, President Brown, and Trustee Lefkovitz for attending. Deputy
Superintendent Herota was there to congratulate our youth and offer words of support.

The Sly Park Environmental Education Center is receiving an award from Partnership
for Quality Living for Hall of Honor as a "Regional Treasure" Recognition. This award

February 18, 2025 Minutes                                                                  3
will be presented during the California Park & Recreation Society District 2 Awards and
Installation Banquet on Wednesday, February 26, at the Rocklin Event Center.
President Brown, Trustee Davis, Sly Park Director Jeremy Meyers, and I will be present
to accept the award.

On February 21-22, SCOE supported Black History Month EXPO held at the Antioch
Progressive Church in Sacramento.

Black History Month presentations have been placed on display by SCOE staff to
recognize the contributions and history of great Black and African American civic
leaders. Black History Month has been promoted on our social media via a weekly
feature of Black and African American teachers, educators, advocates for literacy, and
trailblazers in science and math.

We look forward to observing Arts Month with special events this March. On March 4,
SCOE is hosting a Mentor Mix starting at 3:30 p.m. in the Mather Room and our first Art
Gallery Art Reception in the Library Meeting Room at 5:00 p.m.

Also noteworthy in March, it is Women’s History Month, Developmental Disabilities
Month, National Reading Month, and Cesar Chavez Day on March 31. Also on March
31, it is Transgender Day of Visibility.

The Board Retreat is scheduled for Saturday, March 8, 2025.

8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Corona
Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Brown, Caigoy, Corona Sabeniano, Davis

B. Superintendent's Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline
   White/Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendent White announced that six students are scheduled to graduate
from each of their respective schools and they have completed all requirements for high
school graduation: four candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. - Senior Extension and


February 18, 2025 Minutes                                                                4
two candidates from North Area Senior Extension.

9. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

A. No Contracts

10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Motion to approve by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee Caigoy.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Brown, Caigoy, Corona Sabeniano, Davis
Abstain: Fong

A. Statewide Non-Profit Private School Professional Development (SNPSPD) Grant -
Dr. Channa Pitt

B. Health Net CalAIM Grant - Shanine Coats

11. New Business - Other

A. Authorization for Out-of-State Travel for Trustee Attending the National School
Boards Association (NSBA) Annual Conference - David W. Gordon

Motion to approve by Trustee Caigoy, second by Trustee Davis.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Brown, Caigoy, Corona Sabeniano, Davis
Abstain: Fong

B. 2023-2024 Audit Report - Nicolas Schweizer

Associate Superintendent Schweizer presented the 2023-24 Audit Report.

Motion to approve by Trustee Fong, second by Trustee Davis.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Brown, Caigoy, Corona Sabeniano, Davis, Fong

C. SCOE Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP) Update/SCOE Schools Data
Report - Jacqueline White


February 18, 2025 Minutes                                                            5
Assistant Superintendent White and Program Manager Melissa Neuburger presented
the SCOE Local Control and Accountability Plan Update/SCOE Schools Data Report.

12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Caigoy started by saying Happy Black History Month. She stated that she
visited Miracle University earlier this week and found it interesting that the students
served are largely Foster Youth, immigrants, and student that didn't do well in a
traditional school. She reported that the Miracle students she spoke with expressed that
they felt valued, teachers were responsive, and that teachers and mentors are relatable.
She expressed frustration with the data and that there seems to be a tone of
complacency, and the lowest performing subgroup is African American students. She
commented that families may find it hard to attend listening sessions facilitated by
SCOE held during working hours. She expressed interest in scheduling two additional
Board meetings this year. She requested that Board reports align with SCOE priorities
and that Board resolutions come before the Board first as informational item to gather
public input, and then as an action item for adoption.

Trustee Keefer recognized two great Black leaders. He stated that Dr. Rex Fortune and
Ron Fortune were his mentors and acknowledged their great careers and the positive
impact they have had on many.

Trustee Lefkovitz stated that she agreed with a lot of the points that Trustee Caigoy
made in her report. She expressed interest in creating the Board calendar and setting
Board priorities together, as well as having an extra meeting. She also stated that she
would like SCOE students to attend the Civic Summit and report back to the Board next
year. She commented that she is intrigued by Miracle University and would like to hear
SCOE's perspective on implementing some of their practices. She shared a poster with
data as an example of how to keep data front and center to assist in helping the Board
stay focused on closing the achievement gap.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano expressed agreement with Trustee Caigoy's comments and
would like to learn more about Miracle University. She also expressed interest in having
SCOE students attend the Civic Summit.

Trustee Davis expressed appreciation for the dedication of SCOE staff. As the Budget
Committee Chair, she expressed gratitude for the great Audit Report and recognized
how important the work is.

SCOE Appointed Board Member Representing Students Marquez agreed with
comments made by Trustee Caigoy during her report. She reported that at the student

February 18, 2025 Minutes                                                              6
advisory committee meeting last week at Nathaniel S. Colley and Elinor Lincoln Hickey
Jr./Sr. High Schools, she led the students through a list of topics that are important to
the students. The topics the youth identified as most important were mental health,
immigration, street politics, poverty, racial profiling, gangs, cultural sensitivity, and street
violence. She asked for assistance in finding resources and/or partners to help
students deal with these issues.

Trustee Fong thanked Ms. Marquez for describing the daily experience for some of our
students. He asked that staff consider bringing NA and/or AA to the schools. Regarding
the students that reported on the Civic Summit, he encouraged them to run for the
School Board and pursue civic engagement. He thanked the staff for the data that was
provided during the meeting, acknowledged that it shows improvement, and looks
forward to using the data to improve our schools. He expressed interested in Miracle
University.

B. Board President

President Brown made a statement, in honor of Black History Month, about Ruby
Bridges who was the first Black student to attend an all white elementary school in the
South. He also stated that he has met many significant, history making Black men and
women, all of whom made a great impact on his life.

C. Committees

13. Items for Distribution

A. February Events and Site Visits

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. March 4, 2025 and March 18, 2025

15. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to Adjourn Meeting by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Lefkovitz, Keefer, Brown, Caigoy, Corona Sabeniano, Davis, Fong

The meeting was adjourned at 8:42 p.m.


February 18, 2025 Minutes                                                                      7
Respectfully submitted,



David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board
Date approved:




February 18, 2025 Minutes   8
