                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                         10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700

   DAN HAVERTY
   Interim Fire Chief


                                  BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                                Thursday, August 10, 2023 - 6:00 PM
                                                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                                                     10545 Armstrong Avenue
D'Elman Clark                                       Board Room - Second Floor
Board President
Division 6
                                                        Mather, California
                                                               &
Grant Goold                                           Remotely Via Zoom
Board Vice President
Division 2                                       Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
                                                     Passcode: metro2101
Ted Wood
Board Secretary                            Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Division 4                                          ir Passcode: 838771796 #
Cinthia Saylors         https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFILQ 1 Znd25RSmlhdXZV
Board Member                                       QVh4d 1VWZz09
Division 1

Robert Webber
Board Member            The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 3
                            and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.
Jennifer Sheetz
Board Member
Division 5              The Public's health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Brian Rice
                        the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
Board Member            appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
Division 7              Application, please click on the link above.
Gay Jones
Board Member            Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Division 8              reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
John Costa              reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
Board Member            advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Division 9              accommodations:

                                                                Marni Rittburg
                                                                  Board Clerk
                                                                (916) 859-4305
                                                       rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                        The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                           Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                   Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                   10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                    THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 2023


►    CALL TO ORDER

►    ROLL CALL

►    PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District will be cablecast on Metro Cable 14,
the local government affairs channel on Comcast, Consolidated Communications and AT&T U-
Verse cable systems. This meeting is also webcast at metro141ive.saccounty.gov. Today's
meeting replays at 6:00 p.m. on Monday, August 14, 2023 and at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday,
August 16, 2023 on Channel 14. This meeting can also be viewed at
youtube. com/metrocable 14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and encourages
public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public members wishing
to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding officer and identify
themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of time and good order, limit
the number of public member presentations. Speakers' comments will be limited to three (3)
minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members of
the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be present or
have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.


CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                   Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                   5
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Special Board
       Meetings of June 3, 2023, June 24, 2023 and June 25, 2023.

2.     Approval of the Purchase of six (6) North Star Ambulances From                                                  9
       Braun Northwest, Inc.
       Recommendation: Approve the Purchase of six (6) 2024 North Star
       Ambulances from Braun Northwest, Inc.
                Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (91 6) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                  THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 2023


ACTION ITEMS:

1.   Fire Chief Employment Agreement - Adam House                                                                35
     (General Counsel John Lavra)
     Recommendation: Approve the Employment Agreement.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.   Swearing-In and Oath of Office to Chief Adam House                                                           **
     (President Clark & Board Clerk Marni Rittburg)

2.   Sacramento County and District Property Tax Update                                                           **
     (CFO Dave O'Toole)
     Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required .

REPORTS:

1.   PRESIDENT'S REPORT -               (President Clark)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Chief House)
           OPERATIONS REPORT - (Deputy Chief Mitchell)
           ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT - (HR Manager Melisa Maddux)
           SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT - (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

3.   SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT - (BC Matt Cole, Local 522 Vice
     President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless otherwise specified.

     A.     Executive Committee - (President Clark)
            Next Meeting: TBD

     8.     Communications Center JPA - (DC Wagaman)
            Next Meeting : August 22, 2023 at 9:00 AM

     C.     Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)
            Next Meeting: August 24, 2023 at 5:00 PM

     D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
            Report Out: August 10, 2023
            Next Meeting: September 14, 2023
                      Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                      10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, California 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                       THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 2023


BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING(S):
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

    •   Regular Board Meeting - August 24, 2023 at 6:00 PM
    •   Regular Board Meeting - September 14, 2023 at 6:00 PM

Posted on August 7, 2023 by 4:30 p.m.



Marni Rittburg,    G,CPM
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
"IElil Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to participate in this
meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification at least 48 hours prior to
the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting.
    l          I       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
 ~.~
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (91 6) 859-4305• Fax (916) 859-3715


  Dan Haverty
Int~rim Fire Chief
                       ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - SPECIAL MEETING

                                   BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                         SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                               Saturday, June 3, 2023 - 9:00 AM
                            10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                      Mather, California

    CALL TO ORDER
    The meeting was called to order at 9:01 a.m. by President Clark. Board members
    present: Clark, Costa, Jones, Saylors, Sheetz, and Webber. Board member Wood
    arrived at 9:08 a.m. Board members absent: Goold and Rice. Staff present: Interim
    Chief Haverty and Board Clerk Marni Rittburg.

     PUBLIC COMMENT:

     No public comments were received.

     CLOSED SESSION:

    The Board recessed to Closed Session at 9:02 AM on the following matter:

     1.      PERSONNEL MATTERS - PUBLIC EMPLOYEE EMPLOYMENT
             Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957
             Fire Chief Selection Process

     CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

    The board reconvened to open session at 1:08 p.m. and reported no reportable action
    was taken.

    ADJOURNMENT

     The meeting adjourned at 1:10 p.m.



     D'Elman Clark, President                                          Ted Wood, Secretary



     Marni Rittburg, CMC
     Board Clerk



    6.3.2023 Special Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                               PS
    l          I        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
 lfi~
  Dan Haverty
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4305• Fax (916) 859-3715



Interim Fire Chief
                        ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - SPECIAL MEETING

                                    BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                          SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                Saturday, June 24, 2023 - 8:00 AM
                             10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                       Mather, California

     CALL TO ORDER
     The meeting was called to order at 8:06 a.m. by President Clark. Board members
     present: Clark, Costa, Jones, Rice, Saylors, Sheetz, Webber and Wood. Board member
     Goold arrived at 9:45 a.m. Board members absent: none. Staff present: Interim Chief
     Haverty and Board Clerk Marni Rittburg.

     PUBLIC COMMENT:

     No public comments were received.

     CLOSED SESSION:

     The Board recessed to Closed Session at 8:08 a.m. on the following matter:

     1.      PERSONNEL MATTERS - PUBLIC EMPLOYEE EMPLOYMENT
             Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957
             Fire Chief Selection Process

     CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

     The board reconvened to open session at 5: 16 p.m. and reported no reportable action
     was taken.

     ADJOURNMENT

     The meeting adjourned at 5:18 p.m.



     D'Elman Clark, President                                           Ted Wood, Secretary



     Marni Rittburg, CMC
     Board Clerk



     6.24.2023 Special Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                             P6
    l          I     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, California 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4305• Fax (916) 859-3715
 ~•;I~ .
  Dan Haverty
Interim Fire Chief
                     ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - SPECIAL MEETING

                                 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                       SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                             Sunday, June 25, 2023 -1 :00 PM
                          10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                    Mather, California

     CALL TO ORDER
     The meeting was called to order at 1:02 p.m. by President Clark. Board members
     present: Clark, Costa, Goold, Jones, Rice, Saylors, Sheetz, and Webber. Board
     member Wood arrived at 1:11 p.m. Board members absent: none. Staff present: Interim
     Chief Haverty and Board Clerk Marni Rittburg.

     PUBLIC COMMENT:

     No public comments were received.

     CLOSED SESSION:

     The Board recessed to Closed Session at 1:04 p.m. on the following matter:

     1.      PERSONNEL MATTERS - PUBLIC EMPLOYEE EMPLOYMENT
             Pursuant to California Government Code Section 54957
             Fire Chief Selection Process

     Moved by Goold, seconded by Webber, and carried unanimously by members present
     to appoint Adam House, as the next Fire Chief for the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
     District subject to the Chief entering into a written employment contract, and passing a
     background and physical.

     CLOSED SESSION REPORT OUT:

     The board reconvened to open session at 6:32 p.m. and reported:

     The Board has met in closed session and now is pleased and excited to announce that
     the Board has unanimously decided to appoint Adam House, as the riext Fire Chief for
     the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District. We look forward in the following weeks to
     bringing Chief House into the office and look forward to him leading our fine
     organization of men and women and providing a high level of service to the community.
     The Board is excited to work with Chief House as Chief Haverty turns the reins over to
     him, and obviously we as the Board thank Chief Haverty for all his hard work,
     leadership, and assistance as the Interim Chief while the Board has completed this
     selection process.


                                                                                                                     P7
ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at 6:36 p.m.



D'Elman Clark, President                                 Ted Wood, Secretary




Marni Rittburg , CMC
Board Clerk




6.25.2023 Special Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                         Page 2   PB
                        Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
    l           I
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 · Mather, CA 95655 · Phone (916) 859-4300 · Fax (916) 859-3702

~~
DAN HAVERTY
Interim Fire Chief


        DATE:           August 10, 2023

        TO:             Board of Directors

        SUBJECT:        Purchase Approval - Six .(6) 2024 North Star Ambulances



                                                      TOPIC

        Staff seeks Board approval for the purchase of six (6) 2024 North Star Ambulances from the
        Braun Northwest, Inc.


                                                   SUMMARY

        This purchase is available through the HGACBuy cooperative purchasing contract number AM10-
        20. HGACBuy used a competitive bid process when awarding this contract. Additionally,
        purchasing has reviewed the contract and determined it is consistent with Metro Fire purchasing
        policies and procedures.


                                                  DISCUSSION

        These vehicles will be replacing ambulances which are at the end of their service life due to age
        and mileage.


                                                 FISCAL IMPACT

        The total cost of the purchase for the six (6) 2024 North Star Ambulances is $1 ,759,266.64.
        1,620,000.00 was included in the FY 2023/24 Preliminary Budget. The difference of $139,266.64
        will be included in the FY 2023/24 Final Budget.


                                              RECOMMENDATION

        Staff respectfully recommends the Board approve the purchase of six (6) 2024 North Star
        Ambulances from the Braun Northwest, Inc.

        Submitted by:

           ~ ~~e<-L
        Shea Pursell
        Fleet Manager                                                                  ervices



                                       Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                                                                                                                 P9
                          Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                          HEADQUARTERS: 10545 Armstrong Ave. , Mather, CA, 95655 , Phone (916) 859-4300 , Fax (916) 859-3702
                          Website: www.metrofire.ca.gov
                          PURCHASING: 3012 Gold Canal Dr. , Rancho Cordova, CA, 95670, Phone (916)859-4360 , Fax (916} 859-3729

         TODD HARMS
           Fire Chief

                        REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO COMPETITIVE BIDDING PROCESS
                                                                  and
                                                  DISCLOSURE STATEMENT

Purchase Description: Six (6) 2024 North Star Ambulances


Proposed Vendor:           Braun Northwest Inc.


Estimated Total Cost:$ 1,759,266.64

This form must accompany the purchase document whenever an exception to the competitive bidding process
is requested. State and local laws subject the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District to competitive bidding rules.
Requests for goods and/or services from a specific vendor or that are limited ~o a specific brand, where
substitutes to the recommended vendor or brand are not in the best interest of the District, must be
accompanied by a written justification explaining the circumstances that make alternatives unacceptable. The
employee signing the justification must disclose in writing whether or not he/she has a potential or actual
conflict of interest. Metro Fire employees who have a business relationship with or financial or personal
interest in the recommended vendor must disclose the conflict of interest. Any employee with an actual or
potential conflict of interest may not participate in the purchase decision.

The Purchasing Manager or their authorized designee will determine whether the justification is appropriate.
Requests for exceptions to the competitive bidding process must be supported by factual statements that will
pass an audit.

1. Pl ease check all appli cable categories below and provide additiona l information where indicated.

 D a. The requested product is an integral repair part or accessory compatible with existing equipment.
                 Existing Equipment:

                 Manufacturer/Model Number:

                 Age:

                 Current Estimated Value:


 □ b. The requested product has unique design/performance specifications or quality requ irements that
            are not available in comparable products.

           I have standardized the requested product, and the use of another brand/model would require
           considerable time and funding to eva luate.


                                                                                                                                  P10
                                               EXCEPTION TO COMPETITIVE BIDDING AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT

 D d. The requested product is one in which I (and/or my staff) have specialized trai ning and/or extensive
            expertise. Retraining would incu r substantial cost in time and/or funding.

 D e. The requested product is used or demonstration equipment available at a lower-than-new cost.
 D f. Repair/Maintenance service is ava ilable only from the manufacturer or designated service
            representative.

 D g. Upgrade to or enhancement of existing software is available only from the manufacturer.
 D h. Service proposed by vendor is unique, therefore, competitive bids are not ava ilable or applicable.
 !vi i. Other factors
2. Provide a detailed explanation and pertinent documentation for each category checked in Section 1 above.
   Attach additional sheets if necessary:
   Purchase will be made through the HGACBuy Contract AM10-20. This contract was established
   using a competitive bidding process.




3. Was an evaluation of other equipment, products, or services performed?            D Yes             □ No
   If yes, please provide all supporting documentation.

4 . List below the name of each individual who was involved in the evaluation, if conducted, and/or in making
    the recommendation to procure this product or service. Attach additional information if necessary. Each
   individual must submit a completed and signed Disclosure Statement (attached).
       1.                                            2.

       3.                                            4.
I certify that the above information is accurate to the best of my knowledge, and a signed copy of this
document will be kept on file and available for audit in my department.


                                                               Fleet Manager
                               Signature                           Budget Officer Title

                 Shea Pursell                                      7-25-23
                              Printed Name·                               Date

                                                    Approval


                                                               Tyler Wagaman              7-25-23

                                                                 Printed Name                 Date P a g e 2 I 3


                                                                                                              P11
                                               EXCEPTION TO COMPETITIVE BIDDING AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT



                                      DISCLOSURE STATEMENT TO ACCOMPANY
                              REQUEST FOR EXCEPTION TO COl\(IPETITIVE BIDDING PROCESS


When submitting a request for an exception to the competitive bidding process, each individual involved in
evaluating and/or in making a recommendation to purchase the proposed good/service must complete, sign,
and submit this Disclosure Statement. Filing an annual statement of economic interest does not exempt an
employee from this requirement. Attach additional information if necessary.

Purchase Description: Six (6) 2024 North Star Ambulances

Proposed Vendor:       Braun Northwest Inc.

   1.   Please list any income or gifts you received from this vendor during the past 12 months:
        None.

   2. Please list any financial interests {stocks, shares, investments, etc.) you have in this vendor:
        None.

   3. Do you have any other type of business or personal relationship with this vendor?
        No.

   4. To the best of your knowledge, does any member of your departmental staff have a business or
      personal relationship with this vendor?
        No.

    S. Do you or any of your near relatives have any financial or personal interest in t his vendor? If yes,
       please describe.
        No.

    6. Please provide any additional information you believe sho uld be disclosed at this time:
        N/A


I certify that the above information is accurate to the best of my knowledge, and a signed copy of this
document will be kept on file and available for audit in my department.

              SkcA ~~~ f                                             Fleet Manager
                       Signature                                                     Title

                                                                               7-25-23
                    Printed Name                                                      Date

                                                                                                   P ag e 313


                                                                                                               P12
I   ,,·.•1 ,,u,v~(LIVVU
    . a .            •• • ,nc.
                       ~ a•       •~ •                 ~             ~

150 North Star Drive/ PO Box 1204 / Chehalis, WA 98532 / 360.748.0195 / 800.245.6303 I fax 360.748.0256

     II                                                   HGAC PROPOSAL                                                  II
          June 15, 2023
          Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
          Attn: Shea Purse])
          4425 Dudley Blvd.
          McClellan, CA 9S652
          pursell.shea@metrofire.ca.gov
          RE: Six (6) 2024 North Stai' 147-1 Ambulances
          Braun N01·tbwest is pleased to offer the fo11owirtg proposal ,vhich is based upon HGAC contract
          AMl0-20:
          Six (6) 2024 North Star 147-1 Ambulances on 2024 Chevy 3500 4x2 Ambulance Prep diesel chassis
          based upon enclosed NS Vehicle #3759_ 61-l "Change Order 3" specifications dated 05/26/2023 and NS
          Vehicle #3592-1 drawings dated 03/01/2022 with the following changes:

              •     Delete installation of a BNW-Supplied Power-LOAD as described in Section 5.08 and instead
                    utilize installing a floor plate only



          Base price HGAC CA04................. ....................................................$167,646.00
          Published/Unpublished options taken...................................................$ 105,821.00
          Multi-vehicle discount........ . ................ ....•......................................<$   1,500.00>
          Sales Tax based upon 7.75% ..............................................................$ 21,077.44
          Subtotal for one (1) vehicle ................................................................$ 293,044.44**
          Subtotal for six (6)_vehicles ................................................................$1,758,266.64
          HGAC Fee - Non-Taxable ................................................................. $          1,000.00
          Total F.O.B. McClellftn, CA ................................................................ $1,759,266,64**




          F.O.B.:          McClellan, California
          Delive1·y:        Approximately 500 - 530 days, based upon current manufacturing plan and chassis
                            arrival.
          Terms:            Ninety percent (90%) payment due upon receipt of vehicle. Balance due in thirty (30)
                            days.




EMERliEI\ICY VE"ICLE!i                                                                                www.braunnw.c~
*Note: Pl'ic_ing above includes 1·01111dh'ip travel clwl'gesfor 2 peoplejlyillgfrom Sacramento, CA to Pol'tla11d, OR fol'
Final l11spection a11d is 1/ivitled behveell six (6) velticles.
**Tlte above pricing is based 11po11 the availability ofthe c11rre11t model year. Sl,011/d the model year 110 /011gel' be
available at tlte time the on/er is placed, a newer model year will be offered wit!, all adj11stme11t iii price.
Braun Northwest, Inc. is a California dealer (16055) with insurance infomzation available upon request.
Respectfully Submitted by:                                   We agree to accept the above proposal:
Brau No thwest, Inc.                                         Sac1·amento    tropolitan Fire District
                                                                                                     f::,-1.r·-ZJ.
           cCallum, V.P. of Sales                               Signature                          Date

 Date:    W/1/f{Y)1PJ                                               c, ,:-11 D
                                                                             ~ <,As. "c"U-
                                                                   -.JI.,( \:1" l
                                                                                               ,--
                                                                                               t~e'f ~A~
                                                                Printed Name                     Title
                                    TM
                                    CcBC
                                    Enclosure: Specifications, drawings.




                                                                                                                            P14
                                                           CONTRACT PRICING WORl(SHEET                                                                                                                           Contract                                                                          Date
ffGACBuy                                                                                 For MOTOR VEHICLES Only                                                                                                   No.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AM 10-20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Prepared:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6/12/2023


This Worksheet is prepared by Contractor and given to End User. If a PO is issued, both the PO and the
     Worksheet MUST be faxed to H-GAC@ 713-993-4548. Therefore please type or print legibly.
      Buying                                                                                                                                                       Contractor:                       jBraun Northwest, Inc.
                    !Sacramento Metropolitan Fire Dishict
      Agency:
       Contact                                                                                                                                                       P repared
                    jShea Pursell                                                                                                                                       By:
                                                                                                                                                                                                     !Tami McCallum
       Person:      :
       Phone:       i9I 6-859-4140                                                                                                                                        Phone:                     j(800) 245-6303, ext. 1014
        Fax:                                                                                                                                                                 Fax:                    \(360)748-0256
       Email:       jpursell.shea@metrofire.ca.gov                                                                                                                        Email:                     jtamimccallum@braunnorthwest.com


I
       Product
        Code:       ! AM20CA04                    II Description: [North Star -Type 1 - GMC K3500 4x4 - Diesel Engine -147"L x 94"W x 72" HR                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -    .                           . -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                         167646
A. Product Item Base Unit Price Per Contractor's H-GAC Contract:                                                                                                                                                                               . . ·- ·                                          .1

B. Published 0ptions - Itemize below -Attach additional sheet(s) if necessary - Include Option ·code i~ d~s-c!!J>tl!>j 1_if aj>pl!ci!b[e.
(Note: Publisbed:Options are options which we~e submitted and priced in Contractor's bid.) ..
                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                       . -
                                                                                              .. .. -- - ~-
                                                                                                            t--_     ~ - --
                                                                                                            ,:,,,- - ~-   ~
                                                                                                                              --- . -
                                                                                                                                      -:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -                                    -•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                           Description                                                                                     Cost                                                                                 Description                                                                                    Cost



                                       .r
                                       r·
                                                      I
                                                               ,- i
                                                               I
                                                                                             ,,., -~                                       I
                                                                                                                                                           ' 1·          ,.. _., .•....,.                        ,         ----.....,_,___,,
                                       I
                                       !          I !          I
                                                                                   I !
                                                                                         I
                                                                                                       .,,.,--,_                 .,I
                                                                                                                                       i
                                                                                                                                                           I                                -        1       I              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               \  I   , -                        I                -~               r     n




                         ..I                                                   I   I
                                                                                    I              l    I
                                                                                                           J
                                                                                                                         \/                    :' t            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                         !                                            I                      I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             J               }\               \I
                                                                                                                                                                                                     l                                                                                            \.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ' '
                                                                           I \                          '                                      ~               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           {__                                           )                   I
                                                                                                                        ri                                                                      .I
                                   I
                                   I          .1
                                              I

                                                                           r
                                                                                                                     I fl
                                                                                                                      / !                      ·-,                                                   I                                                                                   '
                                                                                         '-
                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                               j

                               L                                                                                    L. I                                       I                                     L           -~                                                              ...,-            ,   J




                               7 ,/t.'l it_;               ~;;-· l       .ell f.r;[J '';r
                                                                                                       .       @ , , fi i,-T;v Ii:.' fi-~-~            .r, . .~. f --·n--? /r:-::.
                                                                                                                                                                           -~ (';; t,"t .,. 'J / 'ii'·· .,f. ,1' ..-;i- 11),,)·~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,/
                                  , I
                                   ~
                                              ·-~          '       . . ' ..
                                                                     -::      '.,                              >'
                                                                                                                          ~n -
                                                                                                                                   0s , ..,. n        ~,           ._.          ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                     <       •   •~., ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '       n                ~         :,                   ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal Fron1 Additional Sheet(s):                                                                  900631

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I        Subtotal B:                        900631
                        l-~~- -                   .                 -- -                                                                                                                                     ,·:
C. UnpublisheJI,c~Htion.~-~-~te~eJ ielow / attach additional sheet(s) if necessary.
(Note: Unpublis~ -QJ)tion§_ar_e items which were not submitted and priced in Contractor's bid.)                                                                                                                  I


                                           Description                                                                                     Cost                                                                                 Description                                                                                    Cost


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal From Additional Sheet(s):                                                                    157581

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I        Subtotal C:                            157581

    Check: Total cost of Unpublished Options (C) cannot exceed 25% of the total of the Base Unit                                                                                                                         For this transaction the percentage is:
                               Price plus Published Options (A+B).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6%1

b. Total CostB~fore Any Ap))licable Trade-In/ Other Allowances /Discounts (A+B+C)                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t';;-;.;_='•:I:f _l
                 Quantity Ordered:                    II                   6                  II                                  X Subtotal of A+ B + C:                                                I 273467                            11                     =                    I Subtotal D: i                            16408021
E. H-GAC Order Processing Charge (Amount Per Current Policy)                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I Subtotal E : i                                10001
F. Trade-Ins/ Special Discounts/ Other Allowances/ Freight/ Installation/ Miscellaneous Charges
                                           Description                                                                                     Cost                                                                                  Description                                                                                      Cost
          Multi-Vehicle Discount, Deduct ($1,500) each                                                                                     -9000
          Sales Tax, based upon 7.75% ($21,432.01) each                                                                          126,464.64

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I Subtotal F: !
                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11 7464.641

I                                           Delivery Date:!                                                    :ztpp1 ox.              '.'J0:~:11                                                   G. Total Purchase Price (D+E+F): II                                                                                        1759266.641


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P15
   Code or                                                                                                        Offered
                                                Published Option Description
   Part No.                                                                                                        Price

1.01          2020 GMC 3500 4x4 diesel, 84" CA                                                                $ 51,438.00

1.02.14       Liquid Suspension - Dodge, Ford, GM - standard chassis                                          $   10,500.00

2.08          Compartment - Additional Compai.tment                                                           $      600.00

2.08          Batte1y Drawer                                                                                  $      450.00

2.08          Full height divider - total of(7)                                                               $ . 1,400.00

2.08          Extra alwninum strip - total of (2)                                                             $      200.00

2.09.08       Stainless steel on Enh·ance Doors, all                                                          $      950.00

2.10          Webb Netting with Quick Release Buckles - new                                                   $      425.00

2.10          Side Hinge Twist/Slam Cabinet Door - Aluminum - total of (2)                                    $      700.00

2.10          Side Hinge Twist/Slam Cabinet Door - Polycarbonate                                              $      250.00
              Standard Cabinet Doors - (Standard Cabinet), if another cabinet is utilized, deduct the price
2.10          of - delete (3)                                                                                 $      (675.00)

3.d4          Module Re/Paint - Color other than White                                                        $     1,000.00

3.04          1" Sh·aight Scotchlite Sh-ipe                                                                   $       150.00

3.04          5" Straight Scotchlite Stripe                                                                   $      500.00

3.04          Chevrons, Standard Red/Yellow - Entire Rear                                                     $     1,400.00 .

4.07          Fuel Fill - Def Fill - F Series                                                                 $      275.00

4.16          License Plate - Oval Bezel LED, Whelen 0AC0EDCR / 0SC0EDCR                                      $       125.00

4.17          Zico Elech·ic Step                                                                              $     2,300.00

5.08          Install customer supplied Shyker Power - LOAD system                                            $       850.00

5.10          Attendant Seat - Wise 1655 with 4 point - Aluminum Storage Cabinet                              $     1,350.00

5. 10         Attendant Seat - Wise 1611 with 2 point -Alwninum Storage Cabinet - delete                      $    (I, I 00.00)

5. 11         Oxygen Systems - Electric - price to upgrade to Electric 02                                     $       850.00

5.11          Oxygen Receptacles - Single Recessed with Constant Flow Valve                                   $      475.00

5. 14         Seatbelt, 4 Point                                                                               $       550.00

5.14          Seatbelt, 2 Point - delete                                                                      $       150.00

5. 17         Second Condenser                                                                                $     1,800.00

5.17          Hypotherrnic Hose                                                                               $      400.00

5.26          Shai.·ps/Hazardous Waste Containers - Bench End                                                 $       550.00

5.32          Glove Butler - Cabinet M ount, per position - total of (6)                                      $      900.00



                                                                                                                                  P16
5.34      Bench End Web Restraint                                                                         $    475.00

6.09      Modifications to Switch Plate/Console                                                           $     600.00

6.09      Aim Rest                                                                                        $     200.00

6.15      Whelen 3" LED, 3SC0CDCR with Flange                                                             $     200.00


6.15      Incandescent - Standard Light, ifupgrading to another step light, deduct this amount - delete   $     (50.00)

6.16      InPower module                                                                                  $     250.00

6.17      Brake/Tail. Tum, Backup Lights - Whelen M6 Series                                               $   1,475.00

6.17      Stop/fail, Tum and Backup Lights - Truck Lite - delete                                          $    (500.00)

6.18      Power Install - total of(4)                                                                     $     400.00

6.30.03   Flasher - M9 series, Super LED, Single Color - total of (4)                                     $   1,400.00

6.30.03   Flasher - 700 series, Super LED, Single Color                                                   $     200.00

6.30.04   Scenelight- Pioneer Plus Single Floodlight, 75w LED Recessed                                    $   1,250.00

6.30.04   Scenelights - M6 series, Super LED - M6ZC - total of(6)                                         $   2,400.00

6.30.04   Scenelights - M7 series, Super LED, M7ZC - total of (2)                                         $     500.00

6.30.08   Grille Light - WION LED - total of (4)                                                          $   1,000.00

6.48      Opticom - Surface Mount                                                                         $   1,500.00




          Total Changes                                                                                   $   90,063.00




                                                                                                                          P17
   Code or                                                                                Offered
                                             Unpublished Option Description
   Part No.                                                                                Price

1.01          Chassis; changes to model year.                                         $ (29,435.00)

1.02          Chassis Modifications; changes to chassis.                              $     7,075.00


2.00          Modular Construction; changes to overall design.                        $     4,593.00


3.00          Coatings and Finishes; changes to actual size of lettering and paint.   $       (65.00)


4.00          Module Exterior; changes to module exterior.                            $      (960.00)


5.00          Module Interior; changes to module interior.I                           $     3,615.00


6.00          Electrical; changes to electrical.                                      $     6,348.00

6.30          Emergency Warning Systems; changes to emergency warning systems.        $    11,507.00

              Travel                                                                  $     2,280.00

              Delive1y                                                                $    10,800.00
                                                                   I




              Total Changes                                                           $    15,758.00




                                                                                                        P18
                   Olathe Fleet
                   Dealership Information
                   Braun Northwest

                   CC3500HD Diesel RED

                   Ambulance Prep

                   Includes Upfitter Incentives




  SIGN&DATE llllt

        t/0111 {hvl\ i,tolt-l-                              S°'1l VV\ttvD ~


                                ~~"" ~.~
                                 fc~                    ;t;t,.~/Jucfl-                   SJ\'l fD



                                            6- {s: --~1?-




                   Prepared By:




 This document contains infom1atlon considered Confidential between GM and its Clients uniquely. The informalion provided is not intended for public disclosure. Prices,
 specifications, and availability are subject to change without notice, and do not include certain fees, laxes and charges that may be required by law or vary by manufacturer or region.
 Perfotmance figu,es are guidelines only, and actual performance may vary. Photos may not represent actual vehicles or exact configurations. Conlenl based on report preparer's
 Input Is subject lo the accuracy of the input provided.
 Data Version: 19366. Data Updated: May 7, 2023 6:41:00 PM POT.

May 8, 2023                                                                                                                                                                        Page 1
                                                                                                                                                                                  P19 .
                  John Bcidenmiller
                  Olathe Fleet
                  913-481-4194
                  johnb@olathefleet.com




 This document contains information considered Confidential between GM and its Clients uniquely. The information provided is nol intended for public disclosure. Prices,
 specificallons, and availability are subject to change without notice, and do no! Include certain fees, laxes and charges lhal may be required by law or vary by manufacturer or region.
 Performance figures are guidelines only, and actual performance may vary. Photos may not represent actual vehicles or exact configurations. Conlenl based on report preparer·s
 Input Is subject lo lhe accuracy of lhe input provided.
 Dala Version: 19366. Dala Updated: May 7, 2023 6:41 :00 PM PDT.

Maya, 2023                                                                                                                                                                         Page2
                                                                                                                                                                                  P20
Vehicle: [Fleet] 2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC (CC31403) 2WD Reg Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CA LT
( <1.P Complete )

Quote: Braun NW RED CC3500HD Diesel


Price Summary
                                                                                                                                          . ;,'
'_PR_tc~ suNiMP:Rv .
                                                                                                                                          Invoice                      MSRP
                            Base Price                                                                                                  $44,928.00                  $48,000.00
                            Total Options                                                                                               $12,419.93                  $13,923.00
                            Vehicle Subtotal                                                                                            $57,347.93                  $61,923.00
                            Dealer Advertising Adjustment                                                                                   $0.00                       $0.00
                            Destination Charge                                                                                           $1 ,895.00                  $1,895.00

                            Grand Total                                                                                                 $59,242.93                  $63,818.00




 This document contains Information considered Confidential between GM and ils Clients uniquely. The information provided Is not intended for public disclosure. Prices,
 specifications, and availability are subject to change without notice, and do not include certain fees, taxes and charges that may be required by law or vary by manufacturer or region.
 Performance figures are guidelines only, and actual performance may vary. Photos may not represent actual vehicles or exact configurations. Content based on report preparer's
 input is subject to the accuracy of the input provided.
 Data Version: 19366. Data Updated: May 7, 2023 6:41 :00 PM PDT.
--·- -·- ··-·------·--·--·--·--·-·-- ·- - - ----- ··•--·--·---·-~----- .. -· -·----- -· - - ·-··-----·--·-·-···--·--···-··----------- - -----·-··- ····· ----
May 8, 2023                                                                                                                                                                        Page3
                                                                                                                                                                                  P21
Vehicle: [Fleet] 2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC (CC31403) 2WD Reg Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CA LT
( ~ Complete )

Quote: Braun NW RED CC3500HD Diesel


Selected Model and Options
 MODEL: ,··.                               .... - . . .
              CODE                                  MODEL                                                                                                                                                   Invoice                              MSRP

              CC31403                                2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC 2WD Reg Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CALT                                                                                 $44,928.00                         $4B,000.00


 coLORs
              CODE                                   DESCRIPTION

              G7C                                    Red Hot


. EMJ.§,~I9~'$ :':
            CODE                            DESCRIPTION                                                                                                   FRONT                       REAR                         Invoice                            MSRP
                                                                                                                                                          WEIGHT                      WEIGHT

            YF5                             Emissions, California state requirements                                                                      0.00 lbs                    0.00 lbs                      $0.00                              $0.00


 EN$(~:¢.
            CODE                            DESCRIPTION                                                                                                   . FRONT                     REAR                         Invoice                            MSRP
                                                                                                                                                            WEIGHT                    WEIGHT

            L5P                             Engine, Duramax 6.6L Turbo-Diesel VB B20-Diesel                                                                0.00 lbs                    0.00 lbs                       Inc.                                Inc.
                                            compatible, (470 hp [350.5 kW]@ 2800 rpm, 975 lb-ft of
                                            torque [1322 Nm]@ 1600 rpm) (Included with (PCK)
                                            Ambulance/ Fire/ Rescue Package.)

                                                                                                                                                                                                       .z   • l

 TRANSMissk,Af
   ...... ' ·. . .. .. . . - ·
                 ·-~.;      ..,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        . '


            CODE                             DESCRIPTION                                                                                                   FRONT                       REAR                        Invoice                            MSRP
                                                                                                                                                           WEIGHT                      WEIGHT

            MGM                             Transmission, Allison 10-speed automatic (Included and                                                         0.00 lbs                    0.00 lbs                        Inc.                               Inc.
                                            only available with (L5P) Duramax 6.6L Turbo-Diesel VB
                                            engine. Not available with (PTO) Power Take-off.)

                                                  . ·-.;-.- ,: ...
  AXL_e ·
             CODE                            DESCRIPTION                                                                                                   FRONT                       REAR                        Invoice                            MSRP
                                                                                                                                                           WEIGHT                      WEIGHT

             GU6                             Rear axle, 3.42 ratio (Included and only available with                                                       0.00 lbs                    0.00 lbs                        Inc.                               Inc.
                                             (L5P) Duramax 6.6L Turbo-Diesel VB engine.)




••••••o• - - - • - • - • • - • - - - - - - - - - - •• - - •   - -- - - • •• • ••• -• -• - --   ••-   • -- - - - - - - - - - - - • - - -- • -   • - -• -    • ~ • • - - - - • - - --   - -- - • - •- - -• - • • • • •- •• -   •-   • • • • - -• •• - • • · •••••- • -- ••• • - • •

  This document contains information considered Confidenllal between GM and its Clients uniquely. The Information provided Is not Intended for public disclosure. Prices,
  specifications, and availability are subject to change without notice, and do not include certain fees, taxes and charges that may be required by law or vary by manufacturer or region.
  Performance figures are guidelines only, and actual performance may vary. Photos may nol represent actual vehicles or exact configurations. Content based on report preparer's
  Input is subject to the accuracy of the Input provided.
  Data Version: 19366. Data Updated: May 7, 2023 6:41 :00 PM PDT.

Mays, 2023
     .           .,



    GM
- ~:.iifi~l

Vehicle: [Fleet] 2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC (CC31403) 2WD Reg Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CA LT
( PComplete )
Quote: Braun NW RED-CC3500HD Diesel


· PRJ=F¢RRED EQUIPMENT GROUP
         CODE                  DESCRIPTION                                                                   FRONT              REAR                   Invoice                               MSRP
                                                                                                             WEIGHT             WEIGHT

         1LT                   LT Preferred Equipment Group includes standard                                0.00 lbs           0.00 lbs                $0.00                                 $0.00
                               equipment


 TIR~-~ .                                                                                                                            \   ...

         CODE                  DESCRIPTION                                                                   FRONT               REAR                  Invoice                                MSRP
                                                                                                             WEIGHT              WEIGHT

         QZT                   Tires, LT235/80R17E all-terrain, blackwall                                    0.00 lbs            0.00 lbs                $0.00                                 $0.00


·SPAR.ift1RI:
       :-;,·. .
                --
         CODE                   DESCRIPTION                                                                  FRONT               REAR                  Invoice                                MSRP
                                                                                                             WEIGHT              WEIGHT

         ZZT                   Tire, spare LT235/80R17E all-terrain                                           0.00 lbs           0.00 lbs              $345.80                              $380.00


; PAINt·. ·                                                                        ~' . :' :.- .
                                                                                                              ~:   .                                                               •.•   ;_·.; .


         CODE                   DESCRIPTION                                                                   FRONT              REAR                   Invoice                                MSRP
                                                                                                              WEIGHT             WEIGHT

         G7C                    Red Hot                                                                       0.00 lbs           0.00 lbs                $0.00                                     $0.00


 ~~Ar,JY"1;-
         CODE                   DESCRIPTION                                                                   FRONT              REAR                   Invoice                                MSRP
                                                                                                              WEIGHT             WEIGHT

         AZ3                    Seats, front 40/20/40 split-bench with covered armrest                        0.00 lbs           0.00 lbs                $0.00                                     $0.00
                                storage and under-seat storage (lockable) (STD)

                                                                   .'•   ..                                                                                                  ~-· ~- .
 s1:Aff~°!rf                                                                  •:                                                                              . -·   · -:-




         CODE                   DESCRIPTION                                                                   FRONT              REAR                   Invoice                                MSRP
                                                                                                              WEIGHT             WEIGHT

         HOU                    Jet Black, Cloth seat trim                                                    0.00 lbs            0.00 lbs               $0.00                                     $0.00




 This documenl contalns·lnformalion considered Confidential belween GM and ils Clienls uniquely. The lnformaUon provided is not inlended for public disclosure. Prices,
 specifications, and availabllily are subject lo change wilhout notice, and do not include certain fees, taxes and charges that may be required by law or vary by manufacturer or region.
 Performance figures are guidelines only, and actual performance may vary. Photos may not represent actual vehicles or exact configuralions. Content based on report preparer's
 input Is subject to the accuracy of the input provided.
 Dala Version: 19366. Data Updated: May 7, 2023 6:41 :00 PM PDT.

May 8, 2023
Vehicle: [Fleet) 2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC (CC31403) 2WD Reg Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CA LT
( ~ Complete )
                          -
Quote: Braun NW RED CC3500HD Diesel


 RADIO
        CODE                              DESCRIPTION                                                        FRONT               REAR                  Invoice             MSRP
                                                                                                             WEIGHT              WEIGHT

        IOK                               Audio system, Chevrolet Infotainment 3 Premium system              0.00 lbs            0.00 lbs               $0.00               $0.00
                                          with Google built-in compatibility (select service plan
                                          required, terms and limitations apply) including
                                          navigation capability, 13.4" diagonal HD color
                                          touchscreen, includes multi-touch display, AM/FM stereo,
                                          Bluetooth streaming audio for music and most phones;
                                          featuring Wireless Apple CarPlay and Wireless Android
                                          Auto capability for compatible phones, advanced voice
                                          recognition, In-vehicle apps, personalized profiles for
                                          infotainment and vehicle settings

                                                                                                                                    -,•·

    .-:·:•.. :-· _·· ... ..eoui°Fiivi'ENT
 :Aooihot-.iAL
    .                 _    . .     ..,_._:.•.•-::-·: - PACKAGE
                              ,.;'-"· "
                                                                                                             !

         CODE                             DESCRIPTION                                                        FRONT               REAR                   Invoice             MSRP
                                                                                                             WEIGHT              WEIGHT

         PCK                              Ambulance / Fire / Rescue Package vehicle must meet                 0.00 lbs           0.00 lbs             $9,400.30          $10,330.00
                                          the definition of a dedicated Emergency Vehicle,
                                          Ambulance or Fire Truck per 40 CFR Parts 85, 86, and
                                          1039: Heavy-Duty Highway Program: Provides (ANM)
                                          Emissions Revisions for Emergency Vehicles.
                                          Incomplete vehicle chassis requires further manufacture
                                          and certification by a final stage manufacturer. Includes
                                          (GTY} wide track rear axle, (L5P) Duramax 6.6L Turbo
                                          Diesel V8 engine, (FPF) DPF, diesel particulate filter,
                                          manual regeneration and (K05) engine block heater
                                          (Requires Regular Cab C*31403 model and a Fleet or
                                          Government sales order type.)

         PCL                              Convenience Package includes (CJ2) dual-zone                        0.00 lbs           0.00 lbs              $1,624.35          $1,785.00
                                          automatic climate control, (A2X) 10-way power driver
                                          seat Including power lumbar, (N37) manual
                                          tilUtelescoplng steering column and (T3U) LED fog lamps
                                          (Requires (ZM9) Heat Package and (859) Remote Start
                                          Package.)

         ZM9                              Heat Package includes (KA1) Heated driver and                       0.00 lbs            0.00 lbs              $364.00            $400.00
                                          passenger seats and (Kl3) Healed steering wheel
                                          (Requires (PCL) Convenience Package.)




 This document contains information considered Confidential between GM and ils Clients uniquely. The Information provided Is not intended for public disclosure. Prices,
 specifications, and availability are subject to change without notice, and do not include certain fees, taxes and charges that may be required by law or vary by manuracturer or region.
 Performance figures are guidelines only, and actual performance may vary. Photos may not represent actual vehicles or exact configurations. Content based on report preparer's
 input is subject to the accuracy of the Input provided.
 Data Version: 19366. Data Updated: May 7, 2023 6:41 :00 PM PDT.

Maye, 2023
Vehicle: [Fleet] 2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC (CC31403) 2WD Reg Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CA LT
 ( ~ Complete )

 Quote: Braun NW RED CC3500HD Diesel


 ADOiTi6NAL)~QUIPMENT
   '    . .  . .
           :. ,   .
                      - MECHA.
                         .
                             N_ICAL.
                                   ,


        CODE                   DESCRIPTION                                                                   FRONT               REAR                  Invoice              MSRP
                                                                                                             WEIGHT              WEIGHT
                               Battery, heavy-duty dual 730 cold-cranking amps/70                            0.00 lbs            0.00 lbs                 Inc.                Inc.
                               Amp-hr, maintenance-free with rundown protection and
                               retained accessory power (Included and only available
                               with (L5P) Duramax 6.6L Turbo-Diesel V8 engine.)

        F60                    Heavy Duty Front Spring Package (Not available with                            0.00 lbs           0.00 lbs               $40.95              $45.00
                               (VYU) Snow Plow Prep Package. 4WD models are not
                               available with (L5P) Duramax 6.6L Turbo-Diesel V8
                               engine.)

        FPF                    DPF, diesel particulate filter, manual regeneration                            0.00 lbs           0.00 lbs                 Inc.                Inc.
                               customer regeneration will not be allowed until the DPF
                               load percentage has reached 100% full and a driver
                               information center (DIC) message has been shown
                               (Requires a Fleet or Government type order and (L5P)
                               Duramax 6.6L Turbo-Diesel V8 engine. Included with
                               (PCK) Ambulance/ Fire/ Rescue Package.)

        GTY                     Rear axle, wide-track (Included with (PCK) Ambulance/                         0.00 lbs           0.00 lbs                  Inc.               Inc.
                                Fire/ Rescue Package.)

        K05                     Engine block heater (Included with (L5P) Duramax 6.6L                         0.00 lbs           0.00 lbs                  Inc.               Inc.
                                Turbo-Diesel V8 engine.)

        K40                     Exhaust brake (Included and only available with (L5P)                         0.00 lbs           0.00 lbs                  Inc.               Inc.
                                Duramax 6.6L Turbo-Diesel V8 engine.)

        KHF                     Alternators, dual, 220-amps primary, 170-amps auxiliary                       0.00 lbs           0.00 lbs               $209.30            $230.00
                                (Requires (K4Z) auxiliary battery with (L8T) 6.6L V8 gas
                                engine.)

        N2L                     Fuel tank, rear only, 40 gallon mounted between frame                         0.00 lbs            0.00 lbs              ($45.50)           ($50.00)
                                side rails and behind rear axle (Requires (L5P) Duramax
                                6.6L Turbo-Diesel V8 engine. Required for DEF tank
                                relocation to inside the frame rails - includes DEF tank
                                relocation mounting kit.) *CREDIT*

        UF3                     High idle switch (Not available with (PTO) Power Take-                        0.00 lbs            0.00 lbs              $182.00             $200.00
                                off.)




 This document contains information considered Confidential between GM and its Clients uniquely. The information provided is not intended for public disclosure. Prices,
 specifications, and availability are subject to change without notice, and do no! Include certain fees, taxes and charges that may be required by law or vary by manufacturer or region.
 Performance figures are guidelines only, and actual performance may vary. Photos may not represent actual vehicles or exact configurations. Content based on report preparer's
 input Is subject to the accuracy of the input provided.
 Data Version: 19366. Dala Updated: May 7, 2023 6:41:00 PM PDT.

Maya, 2023
Vehicle: [Fleet] 2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC (CC31403) 2WD Reg Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CA LT
( ~ Complete )

Quote: Braun NW RED CC3500HD Diesel


ADDITIONAL EQUIPM,E,NT ~ EXTE.RI(:>~
          CODE                         DESCRIPTION                                                                                  FRONT                  REAR                       Invoice                  MSRP
                                                                                                                                    WEIGHT                 WEIGHT

          BHP                          Winier Grille Cover (Included and only available with                                        0.00 lbs               0.00 lbs                       Inc.                   Inc.
                                       (L5P) Duramax 6.6L Turbo-Diesel VS engine.)

          DWI                          Mirrors, outside power-adjustable vertical trailering with                                   0.00 lbs                0.00 lbs                  $482.30                 $530.00
                                       heated and auto-dimming upper glass lower convex
                                       mirrors, turn signal indicators, puddle lamps, perimeter
                                       lighting, auxiliary lighting, power folding/manual
                                       extending (extends 3.31" [84.25mm]) (Requires (PCL)
                                       Convenience Package. Includes (DDS) auto-dimming
                                       rearview mirror.)

          T3U                          Fog lamps, front, LED (Included with (PCL) Convenience                                       0.00 lbs                0.00 lbs                      Inc.                    Inc.
                                       Package.)

          VK3                          License plate kit, front (will be shipped to orders with ship                                0.00 lbs                0.00 lbs                     $0.00                  $0.00
                                       -to states that require front license plate)


 ADDITIONAL
 . .. . . -. -- ·: ·EQUIPiviEttt-..~              ·1NfEf{IOR .. -
                    ·.. ·. . .. ~· ' .-. . .-... ,"'.: ;:..:: .;-· . ·- :·· '. . :
                                       • •.   '•   :          :;.: :.         •.


          CODE                          DESCRIPTION                                                                                 FRONT                   REAR                       Invoice                  MSRP
                                                                                                                                    WEIGHT                  WEIGHT

          A2X                           Seat adjuster, driver 10-way power including lumbar                                          0.00 lbs               0.00 lbs                       Inc.                   Inc.
                                        (Requires (Kl4) 120-volt power outlet. Included and only
                                        available with (PCL) Convenience Package.)

           BG9                          Floor covering, rubberized-vinyl                                                             0.00 lbs               0.00 lbs                     $0.00                   $0.00

           CJ2                          Air conditioning, dual-zone automatic climate control                                        0.00 lbs               0.00 lbs                       Inc.                   Inc.
                                        (Included and only available with (PCL) Convenience
                                        Package.)

           DDS                          Mirror, inside rearview auto-dimming (Included and only                                      0.00 lbs                0.00 lbs                      Inc.                   Inc.
                                        available with (DWI) trailer mirrors.)

           KA1                          Seating, heated driver and front outboard passenger                                          0.00 lbs                0.00 lbs                      Inc.                   Inc.
                                        (Included and only available with (ZM9) Heat Package.)

           Kl3                          Steering wheel, heated (Included and only available with                                     0.00 lbs                0.00 lbs                      Inc.                    Inc.
                                        (ZM9) Heal Package.)




 This document contains Information considered Confidential between GM and its Clients uniquely. The information provided is not intended for public disclosure. Prices,
 specifications, and availability are subject to change without notice, and do not include certain fees, taxes and charges that may be required by law or vary by manufacturer or region.
 Performance figures are guidelines only, and actual performance may vary. Photos may not represent actual vehicles or exact configurations. Content based on report preparer's
 input is subject to the accuracy of the input provided.
 Data Version: 19366. Data Updated: May 7, 2023 6:41:00 PM POT.
                                                                                                                                              -
 ··- - - ·· . .... - . ···-·•···-· · . ···- ·· --·· ··-··-·· . ······ .... ··-·-- ··---··- .. ··- · . . ---- ·-·· ---· ... ·- ·· ·-·· ~ .. • . . -···-···· .. --·- --- ---·--·- -·· -· ····•·-- -····-··· ---·-··----. ·---· ··--·
Maya, 2023                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P26
Vehicle: [Fleet] 2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC (CC31403) 2WD Reg Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CA LT
( ~ Complete )

Quote: Braun NW RED CC3500HD Diesel



            CODE                              DESCRIPTION                                                    FRONT              REAR                   Invoice             MSRP
                                                                                                             WEIGHT             WEIGHT

            5N5                               Rear Camera K it. Kit includes camera, fixed position          0.00 lbs           0.00 lbs               $66.43              $73.00
                                              bracket & 19 ft cable with attachment clips. Rear camera
                                              radio calibration provided from the factory. See Upfitter
                                              Integration Bulletin for installation instructions at
                                              www.gmupfitter.com


 ct,sroivi -~- 6u1P.M~Nf .
  . .   .   ::'   . . . , .. •:; . . .
                   ~                     '   .. .     '.:.

            CODE                              DESCRIPTION                                                    FRONT               REAR                  Invoice              MSRP
                                                                                                             WEIGHT              WEIGHT

            DLR                               Admin                                                          0.00 lbs            0.00 lbs              $500.00              $0.00

             R6H                              Upfitter                                                       0.00 lbs            0.00 lbs             ($750.00)             $0.00

                                              Options Total                                                  0.00 lbs            0.00 lbs            $12,419;93          $13,923.00




 This document contains lnfom,ation considered Confidential between GM and its Clients uniquely. The information provided is not intended for public disclosure. Prices,
 specifications, and availability are subject to change without nollce, and do not Include certain fees, taxes and charges that may be required by law or vary by manufacturer or region.
 Performance figures are guidelines only, and actual performance may vary. Photos may not represent actual vehicles or exact configurations. Content based on report preparer's
 input Is subject to the accuracy of the input provided.
 Data Version: 19366. Data Updated: May 7, 2023 6:41:00 PM PDT.

May 8, 2023                                                                                                                                                                        Page9
                                                                                                                                                                                  P27
Vehicle: [Fleet] 2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC (CC31403) 2WD Reg Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CA LT
(".f Complete )
Quote: Braun NW RED CC3500HD Diesel


Standard Equipment
Mectiank:al
                                     Engine, 6.6L V8 with Direct Injection and Variable Valve Timing, gasoline (401 hp [299 kW)@ 5200 rpm, 464 lb-
                                     ft of torque [629 N-m] @ 4000 rpm) (STD)
                                     Transmission, Allison 10-Speed automatic (STD)

                                     Rear axle, 3.73 ratio (Requires (L8T) 6.6L V8 gas engine. Not available with (L5P) Duramax 6.6L Turbo-Diesel
                                     V8 engine.)

                                     Hood Insulator

                                     Auto-locking rear differential

                                     Air filter, heavy-duty

                                     Air filtration monitoring

                                      Rear wheel drive

                                      Cooling, external engine oil cooler

                                      Cooling, auxiliary external transmission oil cooler

                                      Battery, heavy-duty 720 cold-cranking amps/80 Amp-hr, maintenance-free with rundown protection and retained
                                      accessory power (Included and only available with (L8T) 6.6L V8 gas engine.)

                                      Alternator, 170 amps (Requires (LBT) 6.6L VB gas engine.)

                                      Trailer brake controller, integrated

                                      Recovery hooks, front, frame-mounted, Black (Not available with (VLQ) Chrome recovery hooks.)

                                      Body, Chassis Cab

                                      Frame, fully-boxed, hydroformed front section and an open "C" rear section

                                      GVWR, 14,000 lbs. (6350 kg)

                                      Suspension Package

                                      Steering, Recirculating Ball with smart now power steering system

                                      Brakes, 4-wheel antilock, 4-wheel disc with DURALi FE rotors

                                      Fuel tank, front and rear, 63.5 gallon

                                      Capped Fuel Fill

· Ext~rio~
                                      Wheels, 17" (43.2 cm) painted steel

                                      Tires, LT235/80R17E all-terrain, blackwall

                                      Dual Rear Wheels

                                                                                  ··•·····--·---·-· -·- ·· --- ----· ---··-··- ----- ~------ ---- ------- ----------- ·•·-···
                           .                                                   .
--- -·-·--·-·------·- -·-···--- -·-·-·--- -·--------·- - ·-··- ··~-·- ---- ····--
 This document contains Information considered Confidential between GM and its Clients uniquely. The information provided Is not intended for public disclosure. Prices,
 specifications, and availability are subject to change without notice, and do not include certain fees, laxes and charges that may be required by law or vary by manufacturer or region.
 Performance figures are guidelines only, and actual performance may vary. Photos may not represent actual vehicles or exact configuralions. Content based on report preparer's
 input is subject to the accuracy of the Input provided.
 Data Version: 19366. Data Updated: May 7, 2023 6:41 :00 PM PDT.

MayB,2023                                                                                                                                                                         Page 10
                                                                                                                                                                                  P28
Vehicle: [Fleet] 2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC (CC31403) 2WD Reg Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CA LT
( 4) Complete )
 Quote: Braun NW RED CC3500HD Diesel


 Exterior ...
                                      Wheel trim, Chrome trim skins and chrome center caps

                                      Bumper, front chrome

                                      Bumper, rear, delete

                                      Moldings, bellline, Black

                                      Grille (Chrome front grille bar with "CHEVROLET". Includes molded in color Black grille inserts with small Gold
                                      bowtie emblem.)                             .

                                      Headlamps, halogen reflector with halogen Daytime Running Lamps

                                      lntelliBeam, automatic high beam on/off

                                      Lamps, Smoked Amber roof marker, (LED)

                                      Lamps, cargo area, cab mounted integrated with center high mount stop lamp with switch in bank on left side of
                                      steering wheel

                                      Mirrors, outside power-adjustable vertical trailering with heated upper glass, lower convex mirrors, integrated
                                      turn signals, manual folding/extending (extends 3.31" [84.25mm])

                                      Mirror caps, Black

                                      Glass, deep-tinted

                                      Door handles, body-color



                                      Audio system, Chevrolet Infotainment 3 Premium system ~ith Google built-in compatibility (select service plan
                                      required, terms and limitations apply) including navigation capability, 13.4" diagonal HD color touchscreen,
                                      includes multi-touch display, AM/FM stereo, Bluetooth streaming audio for music and most phones; featuring
                                      Wireless Apple CarPlay and Wireless Android Auto capability for compatible phones, advanced voice
                                      recognition, in-vehicle apps, personalized profiles for infotainment and vehicle settings

                                      Audio system feature, 2-speakers (Requires Regular Cab model.)

                                      Bluetooth for phone, connectivity to vehicle infotainment system

                                      SiriusXM Radio enjoy a Platinum Plan trial subscription with over 150 channels including commercial-free music,
                                      plus sports, news and entertainment. Plus listening on the SiriusXM app, online and at home on compatible
                                      connected devices is included, so you'll hear the best SiriusXM has to offer, anywhere life takes you. Welcome
                                      to the world of SlriusXM. (IMPORTANT: The SiriusXM radio trial package is not provided on vehicles that are
                                      ordered for Fleet Daily Rental ("FDR") use. If you decide to continue service after your trial, the subscription plan
                                      you choose will automatic.ally renew thereafter and you will be charged according to your chosen payment
                                      method at then-current rates. Fees and taxes apply. To cancel you must call us at 1-866-635-2349. See our
                                      Customer Agreement for complete terms at www.siriusxm.com. All fees and programming subject to change.)

                                      Wi-Fi Hotspot capable (Terms and limitations apply. See onstar.com or dealer for details.)
                  ..
                  ': .
                                                                                                         '   .... ..
                                                                                                                · ._:




                                      Seats, front 40/20/40 split-bench with covered armrest storage and under-seat storage (lockable) (STD)

  This document contains information considered Confidential between GM and ils Clients uniquely. The information provided is nol intended for public disclosure. Prices,
  specifications, and availability are subject lo change without notice, and do not Include certain fees, taxes and charges lhal.may be required by law or vary by manufacturer or region.
  Performance f19ures are guidelines only, and actual performance may vary. Pholos may nol represent aclual vehicles or exacl configurations. Conlenl based on report preparer's
  inpul is subject lo lhe accuracy of lhe input provided.
  Data Version: 19366. Dala Updated: May 7, 2023 6:41:00 PM PDT.
-·-- · --·--·---·-·-·- - --··- - - - · -·-·-------·- ---·-······•···•··-·· ···-·- --··-· ··- ·---· •-··------- --··- --·-·--·-·--·--···--- -----··-··- ··- · ··----- ·· - . ·---•··-- ··-·
Maya, 2023                                                                                                                                                                          Page 11
                                                                                                                                                                                   P29
Vehicle: [Fleet] 2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC (CC31403) 2WD Reg Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CA LT
( ~ Complete )                                                  .                                        ·

Quote: Braun NW RED CC3500HD Diesel



                                     Seat adjuster, driver 4-way manual

                                     Seat adjuster, passenger 4-way manual

                                     Cloth seat trim

                                      Floor covering, color-keyed carpeting

                                      Floor mats, rubberized vinyl, front

                                      Steering column, manual tilt and telescoping (Beginning February 27, 2023 certain vehicles will be forced to
                                      include (N37) manual tilt/telescoping steering column that will remove the (N33) Tilt-Wheel manual steering
                                      column. Does not include later dealer retrofit. See dealer for details or the window label for the features on a
                                      specific vehicle.)

                                      Steering wheel, wrapped

                                      Steering wheel audio controls

                                      Instrument cluster 6-gauge cluster featuring speedometer, fuel level, engine temperature, tachometer, voltage
                                      and oil pressure

                                      Compass, located in.instrument cluster

                                      Driver Information Center, enhanced, 12.3" diagonal reconfigurable multicolor digital display

                                      Exterior Temperature Display located in radio display

                                      Brake lining wear indicator

                                      Window, power front, drivers express up/down

                                      Window, power front, passenger express down

                                      Door locks, power

                                      Keyless Open and Start

                                      Cruise control, electronic with set and resume speed, steering wheel-mounted

                                      Power outlet, interior, 120-volt (400 watts)

                                      USB Ports, 2, Charge/Data ports located on instrument panel

                                      Air conditioning, single-zone

                                      Mirror, inside rearview, manual \ill

                                      Assist handles front A-pillar mounted for driver and passenger

                                      Chevrolet Connected Access capable (Subject to terms. See onstar.com or dealer for details.)

                                      Back-up alarm calibration. This calibration will allow installation of an aftermarket back-up alarm by disabling
                                      rear perimeter lighting (Not available with (8S3) Back-up alarm.)




 This document contains information considered Confidential between GM and its Clients uniquely. The Information provided is not intended for public disclosure. Prices,
 specifications, and availability are subject to change without notice, and do not include certain fees, laxes and charges that may be required by law or vary by manufacturer or region.
 Performance figures are guidelines only, and actual performance may vary. Photos may not represent actual vehicles or exact configurations. Content based on report preparer's
 Input is subject to the accuracy of the input provided.
 Data Version: 19366. Data Updated: May 7, 2023 6:41:00 PM PDT.

May 8, 2023                                                                                                                                                                       Page 12
                                                                                                                                                                                  P30
Vehicle: [Fleet) 2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC (CC31403) 2WD Reg Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CA LT
( ~ Complete )

Quote: Braun NW RED CC3500HD Diesel



                                     StabiliTrak, stability control system with Proactive Roll Avoidance and traction control, includes electronic trailer
                                     sway control and hill start assist

                                     Automatic Emergency Braking

                                     Front Pedestrian Braking



                                     Daytime Running Lamps with automatic exterior lamp control



                                      Airbags Dual-stage frontal airbags for driver and front outboard passenger; Seat-mounted side impact airbags
                                      for driver and front outboard passenger; Head-curtain airbags for front and rear outboard seating positions;
                                      Includes front outboard Passenger Sensing System for frontal outboard passenger airbag (Always use seat
                                      belts and child restraints. Children are safer when properly secured in a rear seat in the appropriate child
                                      restraint. See the Owner's Manual for more information.)

                                      Following Distance Indicator

                                      Forward Collision Alert

                                      Tire Pressure Monitoring System with Tire Fill Alert (does not apply to spare lire)

                                      Teen Driver a configurable feature that lets you activate customizable vehicle settings associated with a key fob,
                                      to help encourage safe driving behavior. II can limit certain available vehicle features, and ii prevents certain
                                      safety systems from being turned off. An in-vehicle report card gives you information on driving habits and helps
                                      you to continue to coach your new driver

                                      Buckle to Drive prevents vehicle from being shifted out of Park until driver seat belt is fastened; times out after
                                      20 seconds and encourages seat belt use

                                      OnStar and Chevrolet connected services capable (Terms and limitations apply. See onstar.com or dealer for
                                      details.)

                                      3 Years of Remote Access The l3emote Access Plan gives you simplified remote control of your properly
                                      equipped vehicle and unlocks a variety of great features in your myChevrolet mobile app. See dealer for details.
                                      (Remote Access Plan does not include emergency or security services. See onslar.com for details and
                                      limitations. Available on select Apple and Android devices. Service availability, features and functionality vary by
                                      vehicle, device, and the plan you are enrolled In. Terms apply. Device data connection required.)




 This document conlalns informalion considered Confidenlial between GM and its Clienls uniquely. The informalion provided is nol Intended for public disclosure. Prices,
 specificalions, and availabilily are subject to change wilhout notice, and do not include certain fees, laxes and charges that may be required by law or vary by manufacturer or region.
 Performance figures are guidelines only, and actual performance may vary. Photos may not represent aclual vehicles or exact configurations. Content based on report preparer's
 lnpul Is subjecl lo lhe accuracy of the lnpul provided.
 Dala Version: 19366. Oala Updated: May 7, 2023 6:41:00 PM PDT.

May 8, 2023                                                                                                                                                                       Page 13
                                                                                                                                                                                  P31
 Vehicle: [Fleet] 2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC (CC31403) 2WD Reg Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CA LT
 ( ~ Complete )

 Quote: Braun NW RED CC3500HD Diesel


 WARRANTY
                                     Warranty Note: <« Preliminary 2024 Warranty »>
                                     Basic Years: 3
                                     Basic Miles/km: 36,000
                                     Drivetrain Years: 5
                                     Drivetrain Miles/km: 60,000
                                     Drivetrain Note: HD Duramax Diesel: 5 Years/100,000 Miles; Qualified Fleet Purchases: 5 Years/100,000 Miles
                                     Corrosion Years (Rust-Through): 6
                                     Corrosion Years: 3
                                     Corrosion Miles/km (Rust-Through): 100,000
                                     Corrosion Miles/km: 36,000
                                     Roadside Assistance Years: 5
                                     Roadside Assistance Miles/km: 60,000
                                     Roadside Assistance Note: HD Duramax Diesel: 5 Years/100,000 Miles; Qualified Fleet Purchases: 5
                                     Years/100,000 Miles
                                     Maintenance Note: 1 Year/1 Visit




 This document contains information considered Confidential between GM and ils Clients uniquely. The Information provided is not intended for public disclosure. Prices,
 specifications, and availability are subject to change without notice, and do not include certain fees, laxes and charges that may be required by law or vary by manufacturer or region.
 Performance figures are guidelines only, and actual performance may vary. Photos may not represent actual vehicles or exact configurations. Content based on report preparer's
 input is subject to the accuracy of the Input provided.
 Data Version: 19366. Data Updated: May 7, 2023 6:41;00 PM PDT.

May 8, 2023                                                                                                                                                                       Page 14
                                                                                                                                                                                  P32
Vehicle: [Fleet] 2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC (CC31403) 2WD Reg Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CA LT
( .jJ Complete )                                    ·.

 Quote: Braun NW RED CC3500HD Diesel


Window Sticker
SUMMARY .
          [Fleet] 2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC (CC31403) 2WD Reg Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CA LT                                                                 MSRP:$48,000.00


          lnlerior:Jet Black, Cloth seal trim

          Exterior 1:Red Hot

          Exterior 2:No color has been selected.

          Engine, Duramax 6.6L Turbo-Diesel VB

          Transmission, Allison 10-speed automatic

 oi>riot-is
 .   ....... ,., :·

          CODE                                 MODEL                                                                                                                            MSRP

          CC31403                              [Fleet] 2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC (CC31403) 2WD Reg                                                               $48,000.00
                                               Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CA LT

                                               OPTIONS

          1LT                                  LT Preferred Equipment Group                                                                                                      $0.00

          5N5                                  Rear Camera Kit.                                                                                                                 $73.00

          A2X                                  Seat adjuster, driver 10-way power including lumbar                                           Inc.

          Al.3                                 Seats, front 40/20/40 split-bench                                                                                                 $0.00

          BG9                                  Floor covering, rubberized-vinyl                                                                                                  $0.00

          BHP                                  Winter Grille Cover                                                                           Inc.

          CJ2                                  Air conditioning, dual-zone automatic climate control                                         Inc.

          DOB                                  Mirror, inside rearview auto-dimming                                                          Inc.

          DWI                                  Mirrors, outside power-adjustable vertical trailering with heated and                                                          $530.00
                                               auto-dimming upper glass

          F60                                  Heavy Duty Front Spring Package                                                                                                  $45.00

          FPF                                  DPF, diesel particulate filler, manual regeneration                                           Inc.

          G7C                                  Red Hot                                                                                                                            $0.00

          GTY                                  Rear axle, wide-track                                                                         Inc.

          GU6                                  Rear axle, 3.42 ratio                                                                         Inc.

          HOU                                  Jet Black, Cloth seal trim                                                                                                         $0.00

          IOK                                  Audio system, Chevrolet Infotainment 3 Premium system                                                                              $0.00


 This document contains information considered Confidential between GM and its Clients uniquely. The Information provided is not Intended for public disclosure. Prices,
 specifications, and availability are subject to change without notice, and do not include certain fees, laxes and charges that may be required by law or vary by manufacturer or region.
 Performance figures are guidelines only, and actual performance may vary. Photos may not represent actual vehicles or exact configurations. Content based on report preparers
 Input Is subject to the accuracy of the Input provided.
 Data Version: 19366. Data Updated: May 7, 2023 6:41 :00 PM PDT.

Maya, 2023                                                                                                                                                                        Page 15
                                                                                                                                                                                   P33
     s.-.:•-
      iin
 Vehicle: [Fleet] 2024 Chevrolet Silverado 3500HD CC (CC31403) 2WD Reg Cab 171" WB, 84.5" CA LT
 (<P Complete )
 Quote: Braun NW RED CC3500HD Diesel


          K05                                   Engine block heater                                                                          Inc.

          K40                                   Exhaust brake                                                                                Inc.

          KA1                                  Seating, heated driver and front outboard passenger                                           Inc.

          l<HF                                 Alternators, dual, 220-amps primary, 170-amps auxiliary                                                                        $230.00

          K13                                   Steering wheel, heated                                                                       Inc.

          L5P                                   Engine, Duramax 6.6L Turbo-Diesel V8                                                         Inc.

          MGM                                  Transmission, Allison 10-speed automatic                                                      Inc.

          N2L                                   Fuel tank, rear only, 40 gallon                                                                                               ($50.00)

          PCK                                  Ambulance/ Fire/ Rescue Package                                                                                            $10,330.00

          PCL                                   Convenience Package                                                                                                         $1,785.00

          QZT                                   Tires, LT235/80R17E all-terrain, blackwall                                                                                       $0.00

          T3U                                   Fog lamps, front, LED                                                                        Inc.

          UF3                                   High idle switch                                                                                                              $200.00

          VK3                                   License plate kit, front                                                                                                         $0.00

          YF5                                   Emissions, California state requirements                                                                                          $0.00

          ZM9                                   Heat Package                                                                                                                  $400.00

          ZZT                                   Tire, spare LT235/80R17E all-terrain                                                                                          $380.00

                                                Battery, heavy-duty dual 730 cold-cranking amps/70 Amp-hr,                                   Inc.
                                                maintenance-free

                                                CUSTOM EQUIPMENT

          DLR                                   Admin                                                                                                                             $0.00

          R6H                                   Upfitter                                                                                                                          $0.00

                                                SUBTOTAL                                                                                                                  $61,923.00
                                               Adjustments Total                                                                                                                  $0.00

                                                Destination Charge                                                                                                          $1,895.00

                                                TOTAL PRICE                                                                                                               $63,818.00


          Est City:N/A

          Est Highway:N/A

          Est Highway Cruising Range:N/A


 This document contains Information considered Confidential between GM and its Clients uniquely. The information provided Is not intended for public disclosure. Prices,
 specifications, and availability are subject lo change without notice, and do not include certain fees, taxes and charges that may be required by Jaw or vary by manufacturer or region.
 Performance figures are guidelines only, and actual performance may vary. Photos may not represent actual vehicles or exacl configurations. Content based on report preparer's
 input Is subject lo the accuracy of Iha lnpul provided.
 Dala Version: 19366. Dala Updated: May 7, 2023 6:41:00 PM PDT.

May 8, 2023                                                                                                                                                                       Page 16
                                                                                                                                                                                  P34
                           EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT


        THIS AGREEMENT is entered into this _          day of August, 2023, by and
between the SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT, a fire protection
district authorized and existing under the laws of the State of California (hereinafter
"DISTRICT"), and       ADAM HOUSE, an individual (hereinafter "FIRE CHIEF"
"HOUSE" or "EMPLOYEE"). In consideration of the mutual covenants and
conditions contained herein and the faithful performance of the terms as set forth
below, the parties agree as follows:

1.    EMPLOYMENT - TERM

      A.     Pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, HOUSE agrees to accept the
             position and serve as FIRE CHIEF of the DISTRICT as an at-will,
             exempt/management employee appointed and directed by the collective
             action of the Board of Directors (hereinafter "BOARD") to supervise the
             DISTRICT in compliance with BOARD policies and legislative mandates,
             and to perform those duties and responsibilities as more particularly set
             forth in the Job Description for FIRE CHIEF attached hereto as Exhibit
             IIA".

       B.    This agreement becomes effective on the date that the agreement is
             approved by the BOARD and executed by the parties.

       C.    The BOARD shall review the performance of the FIRE CHIEF annually.

2.     FLSA STA TUS

       A.    FIRE CHIEF is a salaried employee and is exempt from the Fair Labor
             Standards Act (FLSA) under Federal law and is an exempt employee under
             the provisions of the California Labor Code and California Law.

       B.    FIRE CHIEF shall not accrue any compensatory time off (CTO), unless
             otherwise provided by BOARD action.

3.     COMPENSATION

       A.    The salary for the position of FIRE CHIEF shall be Three Hundred Thirty-
             Three Thousand, Seven Hundred Ninety Nine dollars and forty eight
             cents ($333,799.48) annually. In the event that the Board establishes
             any adjustments of the annual base salary for the position of Deputy
             Chief, the annual base salary for the Fire Chief shall be adjusted to
             maintain a five percent (5%) difference between the highest annual
             salary for the position of Deputy Chief, and the annual base salary of the
             Fire Chief.




                                                                                          P35
      B.     The FIRE CHIEF'S salary shall be deemed to commence on the date that
             HOUSE assumes the position of FIRE CHIEF as described herein.

      C.     In the event that the BOARD approves a cost of living adjustment for all
             employees of the DISTRICT, represented, unrepresented or otherwise,
             separate and apart from any increase under the terms of any labor collective
             bargaining agreement or Memorandum of Understanding, any such cost of
             living adjustment shall be applicable to the existing annual base salary of
             the FIRE CHIEF.

      D.     This agreement may be reopened by mutual agreement of the DISTRICT
             and the FIRE CHIEF in the event that any mergers by and between the
             DISTRICT and any other Fire Protection District occurs which expand the
             FIRE CHIEF'S responsibilities, the geographical boundaries and
             responsibilities of the DISTRICT, and/or the staffing oversight of the
             DISTRICT. This agreement shall remain in full force and effect at all times.
             In the event it is reopened any changes, modifications, or amendments
             shall only occur if agreed to by the DISTRICT and the FIRE CHIEF in
             writing as provided in paragraph 16.

4.    VACATION

      A.     FIRE CHIEF will be provided 240 hours of annual vacation, accrued at
             the rate of 20 hours per month. FIRE CHIEF may carry over a maximum
             of twenty (20) months accrued and unused leave into the next calendar
             year. At the option of the FIRE CHIEF, any portion of vacation, not to
             exceed 120 hours annually, may be sold back to the DISTRICT at the
             regular hourly rate. Payments in accordance with this subparagraph will
             be at the FIRE CHIEF'S regular hourly rate, in effect on December 31 of
             the preceding year, or at the time of the request if made prior to December
             31 .

              At the time of termination, resignation, or retirement, unearned vacation
At the time of termination, resignation, or retirement, any earned and unused vacation
in the FIRE CHIEF'S account shall be paid off at the FIRE CHIEF'S regular hourly rate.

5.     HOLIDAYS

      FIRE CHIEF shall receive those holidays which are recognized for all other
      employees of the DISTRICT. The days listed below shall be holidays:

      1.       New Year's Day                     (Jan. 1)
      2.       Martin Luther King, Jr., Day       (3rd Mon. in Jan.)
      3.       Lincoln's Birthday                 (2nd Mon . in Feb.)




                                                                                            P36
     4.      Washington's Birthday.             (3rd Mon. in Feb.)
     5.      Memorial Day                       (last Mon. in May)
     6.      Independence Day                   (July 4)
     7.      Labor Day                          (1st Mon. in Sept.)
     8.      Columbus Day                       (2nd Mon. in Oct.)
     9.      Veteran's Day                      (Nov. 11)
     10.     Thanksgiving Day                   (4th Thurs. in Nov.)
     11.     Day after Thanksgiving
     12.     Christmas Eve                      (Dec. 24)
     13.     Christmas Day                      (Dec. 25)

6.   BEREAVEMENT LEAVE

     Bereavement leave shall be allowed up to five (5) consecutive work days off
     with pay, in the event of death in the immediate family. Immediate family
     includes the FIRE CHIEF'S current spouse, child, step or foster child, mother,
     father,   mother-in-law,   father-in-law,    brother,    sister,   grandparents,
     grandchildren, step parents, foster parents, or any relative residing in the FIRE
     CHIEF'S household. This leave shall not be deducted from sick leave or
     vacation credit. Reasonable additional time off with pay may be granted by the
     BOARD.

7.   SICK LEAVE

     A.    As used in this Agreement, sick leave shall be defined as absence from
           work without loss of pay due to a non-service connected illness or injury to
           the FIRE CHIEF, family member or birth of a child. The term "family
           member" shall include any relative who is a permanent resident of the
           household, to include step and foster relatives.

     B.     Sick leave shall be accumulated at the rate of 17.22 hours per month.


     C.     Sick leave shall be accrued and recorded at the end of each month, and
            shall be accumulated on an unlimited basis. If sick leave is exhausted, an
            extension of sick leave may be granted at the discretion of the BOARD.

     D.     Subject to the following conditions, the DISTRICT shall compensate FIRE
            CHIEF, upon request, for accrued sick leave in accordance with the
            following policy:

            1. FIRE CHIEF, at his sole option, must notify the DISTRICT not later than
               October 31 of his election to be compensated. The notice shall be in
               writing.




                                                                                          P37
          2. Compensation shall typically occur not later than December 15.

          3. The FIRE CHIEF may request compensation as follows:

             a. Up to fifty percent (50%) of the hours accrued in the previous year
             (July 1 through June 30) may be relinquished to the DISTRICT at one
             hundred percent (100%) of the FIRE CHIEF'S regular hourly rate on
             December 1.

             b. Any hours used in the previous year (July 1 through June 30) shall
             reduce the number of hours which the FIRE CHIEF may relinquish.

             c. Relinquishment shall be at the FIRE CHIEF'S sole option.

          4. "A" Bank and "B" Bank

             a. If FIRE CHIEF elects to sell no hours, all remaining hours shall
             be placed in the FIRE CHIEF'S "A" Bank. Such hours may be used
             for normal sick leave and may also be sold at retirement pursuant to
             paragraph 9.

             b. If FIRE CHIEF elects to sell any hours, all remaining hours from
             the year's accrual are placed in the FIRE CHIEF'S "B" Bank. Such
             hours may only be used either in the event of a catastrophic illness
             after exhaustion of the FIRE CHIEF'S "A" Bank and/or for additional
             service credit at retirement as discussed in paragraph 9.

8.   HEALTH BENEFITS

     A.   Medical: The DISTRICT shall, subject to availability, provide the FIRE
          CHIEF and dependents with a medical plan. The required DISTRICT
          monthly contribution shall be consistent with the contribution provided to
          the unrepresented and exempt employees of the DISTRICT. The
          DISTRICT will provide these benefits through Public Employees'
          Retirement System (PERS).

     B.   Dental: The DISTRICT shall, subject to availability, provide the FIRE
          CHIEF and dependents with a dental plan. The required DISTRICT
          monthly contribution shall be consistent with the contribution provided to
          the unrepresented and exempt employees of the DISTRICT.

     C.   Vision      Care     Plan:   The    DISTRICT    shall,   subject    to
          availability, provide the FIRE CHIEF and dependents with a vision care
          plan. The required DISTRICT monthly contribution shall be consistent
          with the contribution provided to the unrepresented and exempt




                                                                                       P38
          employees of the DISTRICT.

     D.   Excess Cost: Should any plan selected by the FIRE CHIEF
          cost more than the DISTRICT'S required contribution, the FIRE CHIEF is
          required to sign a payroll deduction form and shall pay the monthly
          difference by payroll deduction.

     E.   The FIRE CHIEF shall be eligible to participate in Flexible Spending
          Accounts (FSA) as permitted by Internal Revenue Service Regulations
          which permit the FIRE CHIEF to defer compensation for:

          1. Out-of-pocket costs for District-sponsored health and dental insurance
             premiums;

          2. Unreimbursed health care expenses up to the statutory limit per plan
             year effective each January 1;

          3. Dependent care reimbursement;

             Administrative costs shall be paid by the employees participating in
             FSA for subparagraphs (2) and (3) above; and Employees will be
             informed about the procedures, rules and the forfeiture of funds left
             unused in FSA.

     F.   The FIRE CHIEF shall be provided during the pendency of this
          Agreement, a policy of life insurance in the amount of One Hundred
          Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00).


9.   RETIREMENT

     A.   FIRE CHIEF is currently enrolled as a Safety Member under the
          DISTRICT'S contract with the Public Employee's Retirement System
          (PERS) . .FIRE CHIEF shall continue his enrollment under his current
          membership.

     8.   At the FIRE CHIEF'S option, upon service retirement or disability
          retirement, the DISTRICT will pay off up to forty percent (40%) of the
          employee's accumulated "A" Bank sick leave.

          1. The rate which the payoff is to be made will be the regular hourly rate,
             based upon the annual base salary of the FIRE CHIEF.

          2. All remaining accumulated sick leave in the FIRE CHIEF'S account
             will, upon retirement, be applied for retirement credit under the
             provisions of Government Code Section 20965 relating to the Public




                                                                                        P39
              Employee's Retirement System (PERS), which reads as follows:
              Credit-for-Unused Sick Leave (Government Code Section 20965)
              Unused accumulated sick leave at time of retirement, for which there
              is no compensation or remuneration at all to the employee, would be
              converted to additional service credit at the rate of 0.004 year of credit
              for each day (250 days of sick leave for one additional year of service
              credit). The increase in allowance will apply to any retirement paid
              after the effective date of this benefit in the agency's contract.

      C.   Upon retirement, medical coverage will be paid by the District for both the
           FIRE CHIEF and dependents, in accordance with his current enrollment
           provisions under the District's contract with the Public Employers
           Retirement (PERS).

      D.   The FIRE CHIEF shall be afforded the opportunity to participate in any
           deferred compensation plan to the extent that program is now offered, or
           offered in the future, to all other employees of the DISTRICT. The plan is
           an IRC 457b plan, funded 100% by employee contribution.

10.   MISCELLANEOUS BENEFITS

      A.   The FIRE CHIEF will be provided at DISTRICT expense, a motor vehicle,
           for his use, subject to the terms and conditions of BOARD policy 332.01
           "District Vehicle Use". The FIRE CHIEF will be provided at the DISTRICT'S
           expense, a cell phone and I-Pad or similar electronic device. Use of these
           devices are subject to DISTRICT administrative policies.

      B.   The FIRE CHIEF shall be allowed and is encouraged to participate in
           professional fire fighter organizations, in his discretion, which benefit the
           DISTRICT, subject to the BOARD approved annual budget for those
           activities. The FIRE CHIEF shall keep the BOARD informed in a timely
           manner of his activities in these organizations. Notwithstanding the FIRE
           CHIEF'S participation in these activities, any teaching activity, such as
           teaching or providing instruction of any kind to students, attendees, or any
           other person, or teaching or conducting seminars, which involves significant
           time and/or for which the FIRE CHIEF is receiving compensation, will be
           conducted on the FIRE CHIEF'S personal time. The FIRE CHIEF, at his
           option, may use vacation for time spent in these activities. Such teaching
           activities shall not conflict with the job duties and responsibilities of the FIRE
           CHIEF, the goals, policies, or mission of the DISTRICT, or appropriate time
           management of the FIRE CHIEF necessary to fulfill his duties and
           responsibilities.


11.   TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT This Agreement may be terminated in the
      following manner:




                                                                                                P40
      A.    FIRE CHIEF may voluntarily resign by delivering a letter of resignation to
            the BOARD not less than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of
            resignation. Upon such voluntary resignation, DISTRICT shall pay to
            FIRE CHIEF all salary and benefits accrued and owing pursuant to this
            Agreement.

      B.    The BOARD may terminate this agreement with the FIRE CHIEF at their
            pleasure. FIRE CHIEF acknowledges that he is an at-will employee who
            serves at the pleasure of the BOARD, and that no cause for this
            termination need exist or be stated, unless the termination is for willful
            misconduct or failure to satisfactorily perform the duties of FIRE CHIEF.
            In the event of termination for willful misconduct or failure to perform the
            duties of FIRE CHIEF, the DISTRICT shall provide FIRE CHIEF with a
            written statement describing the willful misconduct or failure to perform
            and shall offer FIRE CHIEF the opportunity for a hearing before the
            BOARD. In such event, the BOARD shall comply with the following notice
            requirements. The BOARD shall issue a notice of adverse action to the
            FIRE CHIEF, at least seven (7) calendar days prior to scheduling the
            matter for BOARD action . Such adverse action notice shall include:

            1. A statement describing the. alleged willful misconduct or failure to
               perform.

            2. The intended action of the BOARD and date of such action.

            The BOARD shall insure adequate time for the FIRE CHIEF to obtain
            appropriate representation.


12.   BINDING AGREEMENT

      This Agreement shall be binding on the heirs, successors and assigns of the
      parties.

13.   ENTIRE AGREEMENT

      This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties. No
      promise, representation, warranty or covenant not included in this Agreement
      has been or is relied upon by either party to this Agreement.

14.   AMENDMENT OF AGREEMENT

      This Agreement may be amended in writing by mutual agreement of the parties.

15.   GOVERNING LAW




                                                                                           P41
      The rights and obligations of the parties shall be governed by the laws of the
      State of California.

16.   SEVERABILITY

      Should any paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, clause, phrase or word
      included in this Agreement be found invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
      the balance of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

17.   RIGHT TO COUNSEL

      The parties acknowledge that they have been or have had a right to be represented
      by counsel of their own choice; that they have executed this Agreement with the
      consent and upon the advice of their own counsel, if such advice has been sought;
      and they have fully read and fully understood and voluntarily accepted the terms
      of this Agreement.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day
and year first written above.     ·

      SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN                       FIRE CHIEF
      FIRE DISTRICT


 By: DELMAN CLARK,                            By:   ADAM HOUSE
     President Board of Directors

      ATTESTED


 By: Clerk, Board of Directors

      Approved as to form:


 By: JOHN A. LAVRA,
     General Counsel
     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
     District




                                                                                          P42
