                     Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                     10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 • Mather, CA 95655 • Phone (916) 859-4300 • Fax (916) 859-3702


 DAN HAVERTY
Interim Fire Chief


                     ACTION SUMMARY MINUTES - REGULAR MEETING

                                  BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                        SACRAMENTO METROPOLITAN FIRE DISTRICT
                                 Thursday, August 10, 2023
                               Held at the following locations:
                           10545 Armstrong Avenue - Board Room
                                      Mather, California
                                               &
                                     Remotely Via Zoom

  CALL TO ORDER

  The meeting was called to order at 6:02 pm by President Clark. Board members present:
  Clark, Costa, Jones, Rice, Saylors, Sheetz, Webber and Wood. Board members absent:
  Goold. Staff present: Interim Chief Haverty, and Board Clerk Marni Rittburg.

  PUBLIC COMMENTS

  No public comments were received.

  CONSENT ITEMS

  Action: Moved by Director Jones, seconded by Wood, and carried unanimously by members
  present to adopt the consent calendar as follows:

  1.       Action Summary Minutes
           Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Special Board
           Meetings of June 3, 2023, June 24, 2023 and June 25, 2023.
           Action: Approved the Action Summary Minutes

  2.       Approval of the Purchase of six (6) North Star Ambulances From
           Braun Northwest, Inc.
           Recommendation: Approve the Purchase of six (6) 2024 North Star Ambulances
           from Braun Northwest, Inc.
           Action: Approved the Purchase of six (6) 2024 North Star Ambulances from Braun
           Northwest, Inc.
ACTION ITEMS

1.    Fire Chief Employment Agreement - Adam House
      (General Counsel John Lavra)
      Recommendation: Approve the Employment Agreement.
      Action: Moved by Director Wood, seconded by Rice, and carried unanimously by
      members present to approve the employment agreement.

PRESENTATION ITEMS:

1.    Swearing-In and Oath of Office to Chief Adam House
      (President Clark & Board Clerk Marni Rittburg)
      Action: President Clark invited Chief House and Chief House' family to join him at the
      front of the room to pin his badge and collar brass. Board Clerk Marni Rittburg
      administered the Oath of Office. Interim Chief Haverty passed the trumpet to Chief
      House, signifying passing command of Metro Fire.

2.    Sacramento County and District Property Tax Update
      (CFO Dave O'Toole)
      Recommendation: Receive presentation, no action required.
      Action: Presentation received.

REPORTS

1.     PRESIDENT'S REPORT - (President Clark)

       No Report

2.     FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT - (Chief House)

     1. . Remarks/Thank You
          I want to express my thanks and gratitude for the trust and I'm truly humbled and
          proud to wear the Metro Fire patch for 23 years now. We have a fabulous
         organization and I couldn't be prouder.

     2. Meetings
         a. August 2, 2x2 meeting with Rancho Cordova; topics of discussion:
               • Year-to-date call volume statistics within the City
               • Overview of Fourth of July operations, events and fireworks enforcement
                 and safety messaging.
               • River rescue capabilities (American River Parkway)
               • Metro Fire's partnership with the City and its Homeless Outreach Team.
                 Metro Fire will be attending HOT collaboration meetings and connecting
                 our Mobile Integrated Health units with the team as well. We look forward
                 to partnering with the City and identifying how we can best support the
                 efforts of the Team and address issues of common interest.

8.10.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 2 of 6
            b. August 3, Kyle Macdonald and I attended the annual Citrus Heights Elected
               Officials Reception.

           c. August 8, Kyle Macdonald and I attended the Citrus Heights Chamber
              Luncheon. Police Chief Alex Turcotte was the guest speaker and provided an
              overview on the PDs activities and efforts, and provided an opportunity for Q&A.

       3. Retirements
          Congratulations to Engineer Holly Wagner on her retirement on July 31, after 16
          years of service.

       4. Promotions
          Congratulations to Jake Buzzetta for being promoted to Captain effective August 11.
          Captain Jake Buzzetta was introduced.

OPERATIONS REPORT (Deputy Chief Adam Mitchel~

1. McClellan Fire

   •    We responded to a fire in a large hangar at McClellan Park in the evening on Friday,
        July 28 th . The fire went to 2 alarms. Crews overcame the complexity of the building
        size and construction to mitigate the fire. We worked closely with the McClellan Park
        management and the damage was contained to the hangar, which was under remodel.
   •    Crews that responded to the fire had a great after action discussion today at St. 114 to
        discuss the learning points from this high risk, low occurrence incident. Great job!

2. Sacramento OES Drill

   •    A day long large-scale drill occurred at Sacramento County OES yesterday, August
        9th that involved mitigation of multiple wildfires throughout the County and an EOC
        activation to support the activities.
   •    Proud to say we had 7 command officers in attendance functioning in high level roles
        throughout the EOC. It was great to see so many of our uniforms in the room . Very
        proud of their performance, the relationships they built, and now we have 7 more
        officers that can integrate into the EOC when needed!

3. Rancho Cordova HOT Meeting

   •    Meeting attended Monday, August 7th with BC Perryman to discuss current needs and
        future collaboration opportunities.
   •    Great opportunity to build relationships. Chief Perryman spoke of the opportunity our
        MIH can provide them, and I have already had some follow-up discussions with
        Heather Cook from Rancho Cordova to get them some help on a couple items. We
        look forward to the next meeting.


8.10.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 3 of 6
4 . EMS UPDATE
   •   Assistant Chief Rudnicki and Battalion Chief Perryman along with Medical Director Dr.
       Alex Schmalz provided a status update on the Opioid Epidemic and problems with
       Fentanyl on our streets. They provided a heat map of our District of where those calls
       occur most frequently and the responses in 2021-2022. In 2021, our District had
       1,590 overdoses, in 2022 it went up 1,636 and this year we are on track to see a 10%
       increase.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT (HR Manager Melisa Maddux)

No updates from the Community Relations Division or the Finance Division.

Human Resources

TPA Contract: HR received the fully executed contract with the District's new Third-Party
Administrator, next step is to meet with the Transition Team.

Transparency Certificate: Human Resources is starting the renewal process for the District's
Transparency Certificate of Excellence with the Special District Leadership Foundation.
The transparency certificate was part of board strategy #3 of the FY 15/16 Strategic Plan and
has been updated every 2 years as a best practice.

"The purpose of the transparency certificate of excellence is to promote transparency in the
operations and governance of special districts to the public and provide special districts with
an opportunity to showcase their efforts in transparency."

Recruitment and Backgrounds
  • Paramedic Interviews held on August 9th and all candidates were successful.
  • Mechanic Interviews scheduled for 8/29, 8 candidates invited.
  • Firefighter Paramedic Interviews scheduled 8/23 - 8/24, 47 candidates invited.
  • Arson Investigator in Backgrounds and should be done shortly.
  • 2 Administrative Specialist currently in Backgrounds (BG) for openings in EMS and
     Support Services.
  • 1 Legislative Analyst currently in BG.
  • 11 Paramedics in BG.

SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT (Deputy Chief Tyler Wagaman)

Facilities: Station 54 received a new gate for their wildland engine.

Fleet: Ford Motor Company will fulfill the government order which is very good news as it's
been on hold for quite some time. We received three brand new Type 1 Engines.

Congratulations to Chief House and I look forward to the next chapter.


8.10.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                       Page 4 of 6
3. SMFD - FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT (Captain Sean Scollard for Vice
   President Matt Cole)

Moment of silence for two fallen brothers in Riverside County, Assistant Chief Joshua Bischof
and Fire Captain Tim Rodriguez. Thanked the membership, both current and past for being in
the room tonight. We want to express heartfelt gratitude to Interim Chief Haverty and the
Board for all the hours away from your families and allowing the membership to be involved
in the Fire Chief recruitment process. Also, sincere congratulations to Chief House and we
couldn't be prouder and we feel he is most effective leader to have in the chair to face the
current and upcoming challenges.

4.     COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
      All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board Room,
      10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California unless othe1wise specified.

       A.     Executive Committee - (President Clark)
              Next Meeting: TBD
               No Report.

       B.     Communications Center JPA - (AC Greene)

              The last communication center meeting was cancelled, no report.

       C.      Finance and Audit Committee - (Director Wood)

               No Report.

       D.     Policy Committee - (Director Costa)
              Met this evening with a full agenda including an action item that cleaned up
              language on the Purchasing and Contracting Policy and two presentations;
              Reinstatement Policy which revised language making it easier for employees to
              come back that left in good standing. Also, Financial Planning and Budget
              Policy, which is a new policy, and the committee did ask that policy come to the
              Board for review and feedback at a future meeting.

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Director Saylors expressed her sincere congratulations to Chief House and that the District is
moving in a very positive direction. Thank you to Chief Haverty for stepping up and guiding
us. Also, thank you to the District members who continue to do a great job in this time of
change.

Director Costa expressed his congratulations to Chief House and I am looking forward to
everything that you will bring with your leadership. Very glad I got the chance to work with
Chief Haverty, what a kind and thoughtful human being.


8.10.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                                       Page 5 of 6
Director Jones stated what a high-quality meeting we have had tonight. Congratulations to
Chief Adam House for taking the reins of Metro Fire. I was privileged to have worked with
Chief Dan Haverty back in 1995 during a flooding disaster in our region and it's been such a
wonderful pleasure working with him recently as the Interim Fire Chief.

Director Webber thanked everyone for coming out tonight and supporting Chief House. Chief
Haverty was incredible in his short time here and was able to move several projects forward.

Director Rice congratulations to Chief House, you have a great foundation to build on and as
I look around the room and see all of the retirees that built this agency. Please stick together
to support Chief House and each other and his leadership team.

Director Wood everything has already been said. Chief Dan Haverty was the right sole for
the time period and a big thank you to him. Chief House you have an immense responsibility
and you have our confidence.

Director Sheetz great operations report from EMS AC Jon Rudnicki, BC Scott Perryman and
Doctor Schmalz, thank you, we are providing the right care at the right time. Chief Dan
Haverty it was wonderful working with you and you are such a role model. Chief House, very
excited to continue working with you in your new role as Chief.

President Clark not much I can add. Very optimistic for the future of Metro Fire with Chief
House and the wonderful crews we have. Condolences and prayers to the residents of Maui
and the Firefighters fighting the fires on the island.

To view the video of the meeting, please visit the Metro Fire Website or our YouTube
channel:
https://metrofire.ca.gov/2023-08-10-board-meeting
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9t-uKlc oOUGNrmogdQ QA


ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 7:23 p.m.




D'Elman Clark, President




8.10.2023 Board Meeting Action Summary Minutes                                      Page 6 of 6
