                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                        10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700
  ADAM A. HOUSE
      Fire Chief
                             BOARD OF DIRECTORS - REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
                                             Thursday, May 22, 2025 – 6:00 PM
Ted Wood                                    Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
Board President                                   10545 Armstrong Avenue
Division 4
                                                Board Room – Second Floor
John Costa                                            Mather, California
Board Vice President
Division 9
                                                              &
                                                     Remotely Via Zoom
Robert Webber                                   Webinar ID: 827 3461 0232 #
Board Secretary                                     Passcode: metro2101
Division 3
                                          Phone: 1 (669) 444-9171 or 1 (669) 900 6833
Cinthia Saylors                                    Passcode: 838771796 #
Board Member            https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82734610232?pwd=SFlLQ1Znd25RSmlhdXZVQVh4d1VWZz09
Division 1

Grant Goold
Board Member           The mission of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is to provide professional
Division 2                 and compassionate protection, education and service to our community.

Shawn Stark
Board Member           The Public’s health and well-being are the top priority for the Board of Directors of
Division 5             the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and you are urged to take all
                       appropriate health safety precautions. To view the meeting via the Zoom
D’Elman Clark
Board Member
                       Application, please click on the link above.
Division 6
                       Members of the public seeking to attend and to address the Board who require
Brian Rice
Board Member           reasonable accommodations to access the meeting, based on disability or other
Division 7             reasons, should contact the following person at least forty-eight (48) hours in
                       advance of a Regular meeting to make arrangements for such reasonable
Gay Jones
Board Member           accommodations:
Division 8
                                                               Marni Rittburg
                                                                 Board Clerk
                                                               (916) 859-4305
                                                      rittburg.marni@metrofire.ca.gov


                       The Board will convene in open session at 6:00 p.m.




                                          Serving Sacramento and Placer Counties
                  Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                  10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                        THURSDAY, MAY 22, 2025


 CALL TO ORDER

 ROLL CALL

 PLEDGE TO FLAG

METRO CABLE ANNOUNCEMENT:
This meeting of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District is recorded. The recording will be
cablecast on Metro Cable Channel 14, the local government affairs channel on the Comcast
and DirecTV U-Verse cable systems. The recording will also be closed captioned and video
streamed at metro14live.saccounty.gov. Today’s meeting replays at 2:00 p.m. on Sunday,
May 25, 2025, and again at 6:00 p.m. on Monday, May 26, 2025, on Metro Cable
Channel 14. Once posted, the recording of this meeting can be viewed on-demand at
youtube.com/metrocable14.

PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST WITHIN
DISTRICT JURISDICTION INCLUDING ITEMS ON OR NOT ON AGENDA:
The Board of Directors of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District appreciates and
encourages public interest and welcomes questions and opinions at its meetings. Public
members wishing to address the Board are requested to first be recognized by the presiding
officer and identify themselves for the record. The presiding officer may, in the interest of
time and good order, limit the number of public member presentations. Speakers’ comments
will be limited to three (3) minutes (Per Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and
Procedures).

In accordance with Section 31 of the Board of Directors Policies and Procedures, members
of the Public requesting their written comments be read into the meeting record must be
present or have a representative present to read their comments during the time allotted.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Matters of routine approval including but not limited to action summary minutes, referral of
issues to committee, committee referrals to the full Board, items that require yearly approval,
declaration of surplus equipment, and other consent matters. The Consent Agenda is acted
upon as one unit unless a Board member requests separate discussion and/or action.

CONSENT ITEMS                                                                                                     Page No.


1.     Action Summary Minutes                                                                                              6
       Recommendation: Approve the Action Summary Minutes for the Regular
       Board Meeting of April 24, 2025.

2.     Disclosure of Material Expenditure – Insurance Broker Services – USI        12
       Insurance Services - $50,000
       Recommendation: Authorize the payment of $50,000 to USI Insurance Services for
       insurance brokerage services.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                     THURSDAY, MAY 22, 2025


3.   Disclosure of Material Expenditure – Aviation Liability Insurance – Chubb                                          13
     Insurance Group - $185,187.
     Recommendation: Authorize the payment of $185,187.00 to Chubb Insurance
     Group for the purchase of Aviation Liability Insurance.

3.   Adopt Resolution – Qualified Bidders List – Fire Station 67 Project        15
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution establishing a Qualified Bidders List that
     includes those firms who were successful in the pre-qualification process.

4.   Adopt Resolution – Special Fire Tax – Sloughhouse/Rancho Murieta Area           17
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution authorizing the County Assessor to incorporate
     the $100 per parcel Special Fire Tax for the Sloughhouse/Rancho Murieta area with
     the 2025/26 Sacramento County property tax levy.

5.   Adopt Resolution – Annual Adjustment for Medical Aid and Ambulance         20
     Transport User Fee
     Recommendation: In accordance with the Ordinance, adopt the Resolution amending
     the Ambulance Fee Schedule.

6.   Adopt Resolution – Annual Fee Adjustment for Operational Permits, Plan                                             24
     Review, New Construction Inspections, General Fire and Life Safety
     Inspections, and other Miscellaneous Services
     Recommendation: In accordance with the Ordinance, adopt the Resolution
     amending the Fee Schedule.

7.   Adopt Resolution – Surplus Equipment                                           37
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving the disposal of the I.T. Division's
     surplus equipment.

8.   Purchase Approval – Fleet Service Truck                                      40
     Recommendation: Approve the purchase of a Fleet Service Truck from National Auto
     Fleet Group utilizing the Sourcewell contract number 091521-NAF.

PUBLIC HEARING:

1.   Introduction and First Reading of Proposed Ordinance 2025-01, 2025 Fire          51
     Hazard Severity Zone Map
     (Acting Deputy Fire Marshal Schmidt)
     Recommendation: Conduct a Public Hearing and introduce Ordinance 2025-01,
     by title only, waiving the first reading, and proceed with scheduling the second
     reading and adoption for June 12, 2025, to adopt Ordinance 2025-01, thereby
     adopting the 2025 Fire Hazard Severity Zone Map.
               Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
               10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                     THURSDAY, MAY 22, 2025


ACTION ITEMS:
1.   Adopt Resolution – Contract Award Recommendation – 9-1-1 Advanced Life 64
     Support Ambulance Services
     (Assistant Chief Kiley Keeley)
     Recommendation: Adopt Resolution approving a contract award to American
     Medical Response West DBA American Medical Response and authorize the Fire
     Chief or his designee to execute and administer an agreement and any extensions
     thereto.

2.   Adopt Resolutions – Measure O – General Obligation Bond Financing Plan 120
     (Dave O’Toole, Chief Financial Officer)
     (Bobby Cheung, Managing Director, KNN Public Finance, LLC)
     (David Leifer, Senior Managing Director, KNN Public Finance, LLC)
     (Brian Quint, Of Counsel, Stradling Yocca Carlson & Rauth LLP)
     Recommendation: Adopt the two Resolutions authorizing the execution of the
     Measure O Financing Plan.

REPORTS:

1.   PRESIDENT’S REPORT — (President Wood)

2.   FIRE CHIEF'S REPORT — (Chief House)

            OPERATIONS REPORT – (Out-of-Class AC Shawn Daly)
            ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT – (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)
            SUPPORT SERVICES REPORT – (Deputy Chief Wagaman)

3.   SMFD – FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 522 REPORT – (Captain Sean Scollard, Local
     522 Vice President)

4.   COMMITTEE AND DELEGATE REPORTS
     All Committee Meetings will be held at the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District Board
     Room, 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, California, unless otherwise specified.

     A.    Executive Committee – (President Wood)
           Next Meeting: TBD

     B.     Communications Center JPA – (Out-of-Class Deputy Chief Fiorica)
            Next Meeting: May 27, 2025, at 9:00 AM
            SRFECC Annex – 10240 Systems Parkway, Suite B, Sacramento
                       Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District
                       10545 Armstrong Ave., Suite 200 . Mather, California 95655 . Phone (916) 859-4300 . Fax (916) 859-3700


REGULAR BOARD MEETING                                                                             THURSDAY, MAY 22, 2025


        C.      Finance and Audit Committee – (Director Jones)
                Next Meeting: June 26, 2025, at 5:30 PM

        D.       Policy Committee – (Director Costa)
                 Next Meeting: June 12, 2025, at 5:30 PM

BOARD MEMBER QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

ADJOURNMENT

NEXT BOARD MEETING:
Unless specified differently, all meetings of the Board are held at Sacramento Metropolitan Fire
District at 10545 Armstrong Avenue, Mather, CA

    •   Regular Board Meeting – June 12, 2025, at 6:00 PM

Posted on May 19, 2025, by 4:30 p.m.


_____________________________________
Marni Rittburg, CMC, CPMC
Clerk of the Board
** No written report
*    Separate Attachment


DISABILITY INFORMATION:
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to
participate in this meeting, please contact the Clerk of the Board at (916) 859-4305. Notification
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the District to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility.
