Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
Tuesday, February 15, 2022 at 6:30 p.m.

MINUTES – UNAPPROVED

1. Meeting Logistics

Procedural: A. Zoom Video and/or Teleconference Access
Procedural: B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with
Disabilities

2. Call to Order, Roll Call, and Pledge of Allegiance

Procedural: A. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Talamantes called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m. Board members present
via teleconference were Joanne Ahola, Alfred Brown, Harold Fong, Paul Keefer, Bina
Lefkovitz, and Karina Talamantes. Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent
and Secretary to the Board; Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; Jerry Jones, Executive
Director of Technology; and Wende Watson, Executive Assistant.

President Talamantes announced that the Board will now recess the meeting and
convene in Closed Session, under Government Code Section 54956.9(d)(1), regarding
pending litigation of California Court of Appeal (Third District) Case No. C093475. The
Board has provided public notice that the Board will meet in Closed Session for this
purpose.

Recessed Open Session at 5:33 p.m.
Convened Closed Session at 5:33 p.m.
Adjourned Closed Session at 6:20 p.m.
The Board reconvened Open Session at 6:33 p.m.

Members present via teleconference were Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer,
Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne
Ahola, and Trustee Karina Talamantes.

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board; Nancy
Herota, Deputy Superintendent, Teresa Stinson, General Counsel; Jerry Jones,
Executive Director of Technology; Shanine Coats, Director; other staff; and Wende
Watson, Executive Assistant.

Other staff present via teleconference were Nick Schweizer, Associate Superintendent;
Darrien Slider-Johnson, Chief Administrator; Brent Malicote, Assistant Superintendent;
Michael Kast, Channa Cook-Harvey, Kristen Wright, and Rachel Perry, Executive
Directors; and Tim Herrera and Shanine Coats, Director.




2/15/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                                1
President Talamantes reported that there was no action taken in Closed Session.

Procedural: B. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Ahola lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

3. Approval of Minutes

Action: A. Approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of January 11, 2022

Motion by Trustee Joanne Ahola, second by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

4. Adoption of Agenda

Action: A. Adoption of Agenda

Motion to approve the Adoption of the Agenda as presented.

Motion by Trustee Heather Davis, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

5. Official Correspondence

Information: A. Official Correspondence

No official correspondence.

6. Visitor Presentations

Information: A. General Public

Two public comments were made by Crystal Dunn and Rachel Kattan.

Information: B. Employee Organizations

No employee organization requests.

7. Superintendent’s Report

Information: A. Superintendent's Report
Information: B. Recognition of the March 2022 Employees of the Month



2/15/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                             2
Superintendent Gordon announced the introduction of the March 2022 Employees of
the Month.

Vickie Miller, Para-Educator, Special Education Department, was recognized and
honored as the classified employee of the month for March.

Nicole Peyret, Alternative Education Teacher, Special Education Department, was
recognized and honored as the certificated employee of the month for March.

Superintendent Gordon reported on the following:

LOCAL DISTRICT UPDATES
Our local districts are continuing to experience a decrease in the number of positive
COVID-19 cases among staff and students.

COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
Our community school team has remained focused on serving students despite daily
staffing shortages. Team members have supported our sites by subbing in classrooms
and backfilling for the principals when they have been subbing for staff.

Our construction class at Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High School is “in training” to
participate in the Design/Build competition which will be held at Cosumnes River
College in May. We will have more information as the event draws closer.

EL CENTRO
Probation and SCOE staff continue to partner to provide services for students during
this challenging time. Right now, construction and culinary programs have been unable
to operate due to COVID restrictions. We are hopeful that will change shortly.

We are developing a budget to support VOYA (Valley Oak Youth Academy) which was
established inside the Youth Detention Facility. The program provides a safe and
secure environment for realigned youth serving commitments at YDF.

SPECIAL EDUCATION UPDATE
The new start date for in-person services for our Infant Development Program is April 4.
Day-to-day staffing remains a struggle due to COVID cases and mandatory
quarantines. Staff are doing an exemplary job of being flexible in their work assignments
to keep classrooms open. Our school nursing team is doing a great job of meeting
students and staff in their classrooms to provide COVID testing as needed. The on-the-
spot testing maximizes our ability to keep students and staff safe and in programs.

DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION UPDATE
As part of our efforts to provide an array of DEI focused learning opportunities for SCOE
staff, we are hosting monthly guest speakers:

Former Sacramento Police Chief, Daniel Hahn, presented to SCOE employees a



2/15/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                              3
historical retrospective of how race plays out in American systems and in Sacramento
entitled: System to System - Improving Outcomes for Sacramento's Youth by
Understanding Race-based Policies.

Fine Artist Milton Bowens presented today on the impact of color in art and history in
America. Milton is a nationally recognized artist and activist who has been creating
powerful work for over 20 years. Milton works in schools across the nation, including our
own SCOE schools, using art to educate and not just decorate.

We continue partnering with Sacramento County districts around advancing diversity,
equity, and inclusion. We will share an update with examples of what’s happening
across the county at the Board Study Session in March.

ACADEMIC DECATHLON
On February 5, we hosted the 2022 Sacramento County Academic Decathlon at Folsom
High School. It was an in-person event following strict health and safety protocols like
those for in-person instruction and sporting events in public schools in Sacramento
County. Congratulations to Folsom High School for placing first. Vista del Lago High
came in second, followed by Bella Vista High.

An awards ceremony was held immediately following the Super Quiz where SAFE
Credit Union CEO Dave Roughton and Board Chairman Terry Tremelling awarded
college scholarships to the top-scoring students. A long-time Academic Decathlon
sponsor, SAFE graciously donated $10,000 in scholarships for top-scoring students.
Thanks to Student Events Coordinator Craig Irish and team for running a fun and
exciting event. He also thanked Trustee Al Brown for serving as a volunteer judge.

MOCK TRIAL/MOOT COURT
Sacramento County Mock Trial is underway virtually with 17 local high schools
participating. The second round began last week. The following rounds are February 17,
March 2, and March 5. The final round is slated for March 7. And if circumstances
permit, we may try to stage the final round in-person. The Moot Court competition has
been moved to March. We will provide updates on both competitions as we get closer.

CLASSIFIED SCHOOL EMPLOYEES OF THE YEAR
Our Classified School Employee of the Year event is February 22 at 5:00 p.m. We will
honor our nominees and announce our 2022 Employee of the Year. The event will be
on Zoom, and we will send you the link.

SCOE OFFICES CLOSED
All SCOE offices will be closed for the Washington’s Birthday holiday on February 21.

8. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

Action (Consent): A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon
Action (Consent): B. Accept Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson



2/15/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                              4
Action (Consent): C. Award Diplomas - Jacqueline White/Michael Kast

Michael Kast, Executive Director, announced that the following students will be awarded
a diploma: Hayden McAndrew and Niveyah Y. Wright from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. High
School; one candidate from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School; and Peter Adler from Elinor
Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension.

Action (Consent): D. Declaration of Equipment Listed as Surplus Property and
Authorization to Dispose of Equipment Pursuant to Education Code (Technology) -
Jerry Jones

Action (Consent): E. Approval of the 2020-2021 School Accountability Report Cards for
Court and Community Schools and Special Education Programs - Jacqueline
White/Michael Kast

Resolution: Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda.

Motion by Trustee Heather Davis, second by Trustee Joanne Ahola.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

9. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

Action: A. Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer

Motion to approve the contracts.

Motion by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, second by Trustee Paul Keefer.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

10. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

Action: A. COVID-19 Public Health Crisis Response and the Public Health Workforce
Development Grant - Dr. Nancy Herota

Public comment was presented by Blanca Hurtado regarding Item 10.A.

Action: B. California High School Proficiency Examination Contract - Rachel Perry




2/15/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                              5
Motion to approve the grant items.

Motion by Trustee Harold Fong, second by Trustee Heather Davis.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
Abstain: Trustee Harold Fong

11. New Business – Other

Action: A. Consideration and Adoption of Resolution 22-04 - Authorizing Continuance of
Teleconferenced Board Meetings - Teresa Stinson

Public comment was presented by Blanca Hurtado regarding Item 11.A.

Motion to approve Resolution No. 22-04.

Motion by Trustee Alfred Brown, second by Trustee Harold Fong.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Harold Fong, Trustee
Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola
No: Trustee Paul Keefer

Action: B. Audit Report for Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2021 - Nicolas Schweizer

A representative from James Marta & Company, LLP presented the June 30, 2021
Audit Report.

Motion to accept recommendation to accept Audit Report for Fiscal Year Ended June
30, 2021.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Information: C. LCAP Supplement to the Annual Update - Jacqueline White/Michael
Kast

Michael Kast, Executive Director, presented this item.

Information: D. Notice of Award of A-G Completion Improvement Grant

Mr. Kast presented this item.




2/15/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                             6
Action: E. California School Boards Association Delegate Assembly Election Ballot -
David W. Gordon

Motion to Approve the Superintendent’s recommendation that the Board cast its ballot
for the representative to CSBA's Delegate Assembly for Subregion 6-B.

Motion by Trustee Harold Fong, second by Trustee Bina Lefkovitz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Information: F. Vision, Mission, and Goals - Dr. Nancy Herota

This item was presented by Dr. Nancy Herota, Deputy Superintendent and Director
Shanine Coats.

Action: G. Second Reading and Adoption of Revisions to Board Bylaw 8281
(Renumbered 9281) - Committees - Teresa Stinson

Teresa Stinson, General Counsel presented this item. This is coming from the Policy
Committee and therefore does not require a second.

Trustee Ahola moved to adopt revisions to Board Bylaw 8281 (Renumbered 9281) –
Committees with a minor technical edit. Second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Action: H. Second Reading and Adoption of Revisions to Board Policy 1240 -
Volunteers - Teresa Stinson

Ms. Stinson presented this item. This is coming from the Policy Committee and
therefore does not require a second.

Motion to Adopt revisions to Board Policy 1240 – Volunteers.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Action: I. Second Reading and Adoption of Revisions to Board Bylaw 8009
(Renumbered 9000) – Purpose and Role of the Board - Teresa Stinson

Ms. Stinson presented this item. This is coming from the Policy Committee and
therefore does not require a second.



2/15/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                             7
Following discussion and proposed revisions by the Board, Trustee Ahola moved to
adopt Board Bylaw 8009 (Renumbered 9000) – Purpose and Role of the Board with the
addition of including the first paragraph from the old policy framework.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

Information: J. Board Report - Universal Prekindergarten Overview - Dr. Nancy Herota

Dr. Nancy Herota and Executive Director Julie Montali made this presentation.

12. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

Reports: A. Board Members

Trustee Lefkovitz had a chance to do Zoom PTA visits and they have been talking about
Valentine’s Day celebrations and teacher appreciation. There has also been an interest
in mental health work, and there is a big need for support for parents and teachers. She
stated that she is looking forward to the Equity Study Session in March.

Trustee Fong commented that the NSBA Conference is coming to San Diego and
encouraged Board members to attend the in-person event.

Trustee Davis noted that there is a new chef at Sly Park and looks forward to a future
site visit.

Trustee Ahola shared that the California Charter School Association conference is
scheduled for March 14-17, 2022 in Long Beach and encouraged fellow Board
members to attend.

Trustee Brown commented that the Memorial service for Bill Meehan is Saturday,
February 19, 2022. He asked staff to check with other COEs on whether and how they
have a student board member. He hopes to have a student board member next year.
He also stated he is unable to attend the Cap-to-Cap event in Washington, DC.

Trustee Keefer reminded the Board that in 2019, according to the nation’s report card,
California is at the bottom 25% for mathematics, the bottom 25% for language arts in 4th
and 8th grade students. We saw a document from Santa Clara County Board members
regarding the cost of COVID to their operations. That document illustrates what all
schools are facing in Sacramento County, which is the cost of following COVID
protocols and the cost of educational loss for students not being in school. Next is the
health risk regarding mental health of students. He asked the SCOE Board to propose a
resolution to eliminate mandates for masks and vaccines. We are the only state in the
union who is doing both of those over the next four months.




2/15/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                               8
Reports: B. Board President

President Talamantes mentioned she has one niece and three nephews, and is
expecting two more next month, so she is excited. She currently holds the role as
treasurer with CSBA, however, they will be looking for someone new for the seat in
June. She asked her fellow Board members if they are interested to let her know.

Reports: C. Committees – There were no Committee reports.

13. Items for Distribution

Information: A. February/March Events
Information: B. February/March Site Visits

14. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

Information: A. March 1, 2022
Information: B. March 15, 2022

Action: C. Reschedule Friday, April 8, 2022 Meeting to Tuesday, April 5, 2022

Motion to reschedule Friday, April 8, 2022 Meeting to Tuesday, April 5, 2022.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Alfred Brown.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

15. Adjournment

Action: A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to Adjourn Meeting.

Motion by Trustee Paul Keefer, second by Trustee Heather Davis.
Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustee Karina Talamantes, Trustee Bina Lefkovitz, Trustee Paul Keefer, Trustee
Harold Fong, Trustee Heather Davis, Trustee Alfred Brown, Trustee Joanne Ahola

The meeting was adjourned at 9:17 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

David W. Gordon
Secretary to the Board




2/15/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED                                                             9
Date approved:




2/15/22 Minutes UNAPPROVED   10
