                                                                        REQUIRES BOARD ACTION

This complete, ORIGINAL Ballot must be SIGNED by the Superintendent or Board Clerk and
returned in the enclosed envelope postmarked by the post office no later than TUESDAY,
MARCH 15, 2022. Only ONE Ballot per Board. Be sure to mark your vote" X" in the box.
A PARTIAL, UNSIGNED, PHOTOCOPIED, OR LATE BALLOT WILL NOT BE VALID.

                          OFFICIAL 2022 DELEGATE ASSEMBLY BALLOT
                                        SUBREGION 6-B
                                       (Sacramento County)

                          Number of seats: 2 (Vote for no more than 2 candidate)

            Delegates will serve two-year terms beginning April 1, 2022,- March 31, 2024

 *denotes incumbent

D
□
         Christopher B. Clark (Folsom Cordova USO)*

         Enough nominations weren't received; however, your board may vote to write in the narr.
         of a board member to fill this seat.




Provision for Write-in Candidate Name                       School District




Signature of Superintendent or Board Clerk                      Title


School District Name                                           Date ofBoard Action

               See 1·everse side £01" list of all current Delegates in your Region.


CSBA Delegate Assembly Election Ballot                                                             1
 REGION 6 - 18 Delegates (11 elected/7 appointed0)

Director: Darrel Woo (Sacramento City USD)

 Below is a list of all elected or appointed Delegates from this Region.

Subregion 6-A (Volo)
Jackie Wong (Washington USD), term expires 2022

Subregion 6-B (Sacramento)
Beth Albiani (Elk Grove USD) 0, appointed term expires 2023
Nancy Chaires Espinosa (Elk Grove USD) 0, appointed term expires 2022
Christopher Clark (Folsom-Cordova USD), 2022
Pam Costa (San Juan USD)0, appointed term expires 2023
Craig Deluz (Robla ESD), term expires 2022
Leticia Garcia (Sacramento City USD), term expires 2023
Lisa Kaplan (Natomas USD), term expires 2023
Mike McKibbin (San Juan USD)0, appointed term expires 2022
Chinua Rhodes (Sacramento City USD), term expires 2023
Edward (Ed) Short (Folsom-Cordova USD), term expires 2023
Vacant (Sacramento City USD)0, appointed term expires 2022
Vacant (Sacramento City USD)0, appointed term expires 2023
Vacant (Twin Rivers USD)0, appointed term expires 2023

Subregion 6-C (Alpine, El Dorado, Mono)
Misty diVittorio (Placerville Union ESD), term expires 2022
Suzanna George (Rescue Union ESD), term expires 2023

County Delegate:
Shelton Yip (Yolo COE), term expires 2022


I Counties

Yolo (Subregion A)
Sacramento (Subregion B)
Alpine, El Dorado, Mono (Subregion C)




     CSBA Delegate Assembly Election Ballot                                2
Delegate Assembly
Appointed Biosketch Form for 2022
Deadline: Friday, January 7, 2022

Please submit completed form via e-mail to nominations@csba.org no later than by January 7, 2022. Forms may also be
submitted via mail, to CSBA's Executive Office, at 3251 Beacon Blvd., West Sacramento, CA 95691.




Name: Christopher B. Clark                                                              CSBA Region & subregion #:,_6____
District or COE: Folsom Cordova Unified School District                                 Years on board:   -------
                                                                                                          6
Professlon:
              Program Manager (Youth Diversion)
                                                  Contact Number (ii Cell   □ Home □ Bus.): _9_1_6-_3_7_0_-3_3_8_3______
Primary E-mail: cbclark@fcusd.org

Are you an incumbent Delegate? 0Ves          □ No       If yes, year you became Delegate: 2020

Why are you Interested In becoming a Delegate? Please describe the skills and experiences you would bring to the Delegate
Assembly.
I have built great relationships with past and current CSBA Region 6 Delegate's who have welcomed
me with open arms when I came on board. I have enjoyed working with all of them, and have learned
so much in this process. One of the reasons I wanted to become a Delegate is the advocacy that
everyone brings to the table knowing that we all share the same vision.



Please describe your activities and Involvement on your local board, community, and/or CSBA.
As a School Board member, I have served as Board Clerk, Board Vice President, and Board
President. I have been appointed to several City and County Board Positions including serving as the
Chairman of the South Sacramento Citizens Planning Advisory Council and the Sacramento
Neighborhood Accountability Board, City of Sacramento Parks & Recreation Advisory Council, and
The Medowview Neighborhood Betterment Committee. I am a graduate of Leadership Rancho
Cordova Class VII, and I am very active in the Rancho Cordova Business Community.

What do you see as the biggest challenge facing governing boards and how can CSBA help address it?

I honestly beleive one of the major challenges facing our govering boards is navigating through the
current pandemic and facing the criticzism of a certain group of parents throughout the region. CSBA
has been a tremendous help to all of our Delegates in providing the necessary resources and
webinairs to help us deal with those certain situationsand disruptions at Board Meetings.




       CSBA Delegate Assembly Election Ballot                                                                               3
