Sacramento County Board of Education Meeting Agenda
Tuesday, May 2, 2023 – 6:30 P.M.

MINUTES - UNAPPROVED

1. Procedural

A. Meeting Access

B. Public Comments Procedures and Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities

C. Call to Order and Roll Call

President Keefer called the regular meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Other Board members
present: Mariana Corona Sabeniano, Alfred Brown, Harold Fong, Heather Davis,
Joanne Ahola, and Bina Lefkovitz (arrived at 6:50 p.m.).

Also present were David W. Gordon, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board;
Deputy Superintendent Nancy Herota; General Counsel Teresa Stinson; Associate
Superintendent Nick Schweizer; Assistant Superintendent Jacqueline White; Executive
Directors Michael Kast, Xanthi Soriano, and Jerry Jones; and Executive Assistant
Wende Watson.

D. Pledge of Allegiance

Trustee Ahola led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2. Visitor Presentations

A. Public Comments

There was one Public Comment: Nate Pelczar, on behalf of the Stonewall Foundation,
expressed his appreciation to SCOE for its support of the April 26, 2023 LGBTQ+
Convening.

B. Employee Organizations

Three comments were made by the following individuals:

SCOE Employees Douglas Rennie and Raymond Fox spoke in support of
telecommuting for employees.

Tara Degg, CSEA Chapter 480 President, provided an update on negotiations.

3. Approval of Minutes




05.02.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                        1
A. No Approval of Minutes

4. Adoption of Agenda

A. Motion by Trustee Fong to reorder the agenda to hear items 10.A. Adoption of
Resolution No. 23-05 - Declaring May 10, 2023 as California Day of the Teacher and
10.B. Adoption of Resolution No. 23-06 - Declaring May 21-27, 2023 as Classified
School Employee Week after Item 6.A Superintendents Report and adopt the reordered
agenda, second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola
Not present at vote: Trustee Lefkovitz

5. Official Correspondence

A. No Official Correspondence

6. Superintendent’s Report

A. Superintendent's Report

GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS
Thank you, Trustees Brown, Corona Sabeniano, and Davis, and Executive Director
Soriano for participating in the Sac Metro Chamber of Commerce and California School
Boards Association Cap to Cap and Coast 2 Coast legislative advocacy programs and
for speaking with our Congressional representatives and key federal agencies on
workforce development and education. They represented SCOE and the six county
Sacramento Region quite well.

GRANT NEWS
We received excellent news from the California Department of Education (CDE) that,
thanks to the work of Jared Amalong, the SCOE Team, and several partners, the CDE
offered SCOE a grant award of $15 million for the 2023 Educator Workforce Investment
Grant Program for Computer Science.

ADULT EDUCATION
Three of our SCOE adult education colleagues were recently recognized for their
outstanding service in the field of adult education:

Melinda Holt, Project Specialist II, OTAN, was recognized at the national level as a
Coalition on Adult Basic Education (COABE) Champion. Melinda is an expert in
educational technology, Google Suites, technical assistance and support, and is
OTAN’s lead for in-person and virtual training.

Recently retired Outreach and Technical Assistance Network (OTAN) Coordinator of



05.02.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                         2
Distance Learning Projects and current OTAN subject matter expert, Penny Pearson,
received the California Council for Adult Education (CCAE) Dr. Robert Rupert Award for
her widely acknowledged impact on adult education and the CCAE Life Membership
Award for having had outstanding service to CCAE at the chapter, section, and state
levels. Among other things, Penny has been a champion of accessibility and licensing,
open education resources, technology integration, distance learning, and adult
education as a whole.

CCAE also recognized California Adult Education Program - Technical Assistance
Project (TAP) Coordinator, Dr. Veronica Parker, with the Excellence in Support Services
Award - Classified. Veronica is the face of CAEP TAP and has been instrumental in
developing and leading professional development, guidance, technical assistance, and
communications.

Additionally, Computer Using Educators (CUE) introduced their newly elected members
to their Board of Directors, voted in by fellow CUE members. OTAN Coordinator Neda
Anasseri was elected to one of the open Board positions. Neda will serve for three
years at the State level, making decisions about CUE’s priorities, programs, and
initiatives and serving as an ambassador to promote CUE’s mission to educators and
technology leaders across the state and beyond. Neda is passionate about adult
education, ed tech, and equity, and will be an excellent advocate for adult ed
practitioners.

EDUCATORS/STUDENTS COUNTYWIDE
On May 3, Graciela Garcia-Torres and her team will host the State Seal of Biliteracy
event at the Natomas High School Theater, in-person and virtually via Zoom, starting at
4:30 p.m. Hundreds of students from across the county who have completed the
requirements to receive the State Seal of Biliteracy will be recognized.

CAREER PIPELINE
The SCOE Career Pipeline has partnered with Elk Grove Unified, Sacramento City
Unified, Folsom Cordova Unified, and our own SCOE schools to bring a paid 40-hour
learning experience to students. Student youth voice focus groups determined the
content of the workshop which will include training in financial literacy, 21st century
workplace learning skills, mental health and wellness, and career exploration
opportunities in collaboration with our School of Education, Early Learning, and School
Based Mental Health and Wellness Departments. SCOE is partnering with the
Sacramento Youth Center, Mentor California, and Imago to deliver the training.
Students who participate in the training will receive a $1,000 stipend and will be offered
an internship after the training series.

SCOE SCHOOLS
Students in our Center Unified Community Action for Responsive Education (CARE)
program attended a field trip to the California Academy of Sciences on April 26 to bring
learning from the classroom around social sciences and science to life.




05.02.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                               3
Thirteen students from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Jr./Sr. High School’s Construction
program, as part of our partnership with Northern California Construction Training, will
participate in the Sacramento Regional Builders Exchange (SRBX) Design Build on May
3 and 4 at Cosumnes River College. Students will build a shed in the shape of a tank as
part of the competition.

Students from six classes in our CARE programs from Sutter Middle School, Folsom
Middle School, Mitchell Middle School, and Center High School will attend a River Cats
game at the Sutter Health Ballpark on May 10 as a celebration of their academic and
attendance achievements this school year.

Students from our Elinor Lincoln Hickey Jr./Sr. High School, Nathaniel Colley, Sr. High
School, and all of our Senior Extension Programs are invited to participate in SCOE’s
High School Career Pipeline Paths program. The program will run at our Elinor Lincoln
Hickey Jr./Sr. High School from June 5 to June 16 from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.

Our College and Career Department has partnered with our SCOE Schools to create a
three-week CTE Summer School called Game On! This program is open to all SCOE
rising High School students and will be hosted at Elinor Lincoln Hickey Jr./Sr High
School from June 5 to June 23 from 9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.

SCOE is partnering with local partner Capsity Corporation for a “wheel like” CTE
experience that will engage students in a variety of industry experiences including
Culinary, Engineering and Robotics, Stop Animation, Solar Energy and STEAM.
Students who participate will receive A-G credit for the course and be eligible for more
than $2,000 in industry awards.

UPCOMING EVENTS
Starting this week at SCOE, we are showcasing the “Mental Illness: It’s Not Always
What You Think” Art Exhibit. The work is being organized throughout Sacramento
County to honor Mental Health Awareness Month this May. The exhibit features artwork
from individuals who are living with mental illness, as well as those who support others
who live with a mental illness. The exhibit will be featured at several locations in
Sacramento County and/or on the project website, StopStigmaSacramento.org.

On May 3, from 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m., there will be a Family and Community
Engagement (FACE) virtual workshop. The workshop will include resources to address
the needs of the whole child, and tours on how schools should collaborate with families,
caretakers, and community agencies to deliver integrated services that promote
improved access to health and learning supports, high expectations, and a positive
school climate—all of which are necessary for students to thrive in the twenty-first
century.

On May 5, May 8, and July 10, SCOE will facilitate Listening Sessions organized by
Assistant Superintendent White and her team to gather input from students enrolled in
our school programs. These sessions will be led by one of our school partners to best



05.02.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             4
obtain authentic youth input.

On May 11, at 5:00 p.m., Dr. Winlock is hosting the SCOE Leadership Institute Meet
and Greet at his home. Participants at this event will include those involved with the
SCOE Leadership Institute, including faculty, coaches, and supporters.

On May 17, beginning at 6:00 p.m., SCOE, My Brother’s Keeper, and MENTOR
California are hosting a MIXer—an Artist and Mentor Networking Gathering—at the
Sacramento Youth Center on Del Paso Boulevard. The MIX is a space for community
partners, youth serving organizations, and local artists to come together to network and
align ongoing community strategies that impact youth throughout the city of
Sacramento.

B. Recognition of the June 2023 Employees of the Month - Xanthi Soriano

Lily Chu, Program Analyst, College and Career Readiness (C&CR) Department, was
recognized and honored as SCOE Classified Employee of the Month for June.

Carrie Tilley, Teacher for Students with extensive support needs, Special Education
Department, was recognized and honored as SCOE Certificated Employee of the Month
for June.

7. New Business - Adoption of Consent Agenda

A. Approval of Consent Agenda Items - David W. Gordon

Motion to adopt the Consent Agenda by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Brown.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

B. Superintendent’s Report on Personnel Transactions - Darrien Johnson

C. Award Diplomas to Court and Community School Students - Jacqueline White
   /Michael Kast

Assistant Superintendent White announced that 14 students will be awarded diplomas,
including 2 candidates from Nathaniel S. Colley, Sr. Senior Extension; 2 candidates
from Cordova Lane Senior Extension; 1 candidate from El Centro Jr./Sr. High School; 2
candidates from Elinor Lincoln Hickey Senior Extension; and 7 candidates from North
Area Senior Extension.

D. Deferred Maintenance and Modernization Projects - Nicolas Schweizer

8. New Business - Approval of Contracts – Nicolas Schweizer




05.02.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                             5
A. Motion to approve contracts by Trustee Davis, second by Trustee Corona
   Sabeniano.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

9. New Business - Authorization to Submit Grant Applications/Service Contracts
and Accept Funding if Awarded; and Approval of Contracts, Positions, and Other
Expenditures Associated with the Grants as Outlined in the Proposed Budget –
David W. Gordon

A. Dual Enrollment Opportunities College and Career Access Pathways Grant -
Jacqueline White

B. Educator Workforce Investment Grant: Computer Science (CS) - Jacqueline White

Motion to approve by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee Lefkovitz.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

10. New Business – Other

A. Adoption of Resolution No. 23-05 - Declaring May 10, 2023 as California Day of the
   Teacher - Xanthi Soriano

Motion to approve by Trustee Corona Sabeniano, second by Trustee Fong.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

B. Adoption of Resolution No. 23-06 - Declaring May 21 – 27, 2023 as Classified
   School Employee Week - Xanthi Soriano

Motion to approve by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

C. Adoption of Resolution No. 23-07 - Resolution to Pay Absent Board Member - David
   W. Gordon

Motion to approve by Trustee Ahola, second by Trustee Davis.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Davis, Brown, Ahola



05.02.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                          6
Abstain: Trustee Fong

D. Mentoring Plan Update - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent White presented the Mentoring Plan Update Board report.

E. Arts Initiatives - Jacqueline White

Assistant Superintendent White presented the Arts Initiative Board report.

11. Board Reports, Comments, and Ideas

A. Board Members

Trustee Brown stated that he attended Cap to Cap in Washington DC and encouraged
others to attend. He stated that his group visited the Department of Labor, and he
learned that this Department makes education grants in the regional office in San
Francisco.

Trustee Lefkovitz spoke about Sacramento City Unified School District’s Resolution
3310 Transgender Day of Visibility which was passed in March 2023 and suggested
that SCOE consider making a statement. She stated that this issue is personal to her as
her son is gay and she has many close friends with children that are trans or identify as
non-binary. She spoke of 400 anti-LGBTQ+ bills that have been introduced around the
nation and of the hate happening against this community. She commented that she is
worried about our students who hear about this on the news and start to internalize it;
and feels it would be a symbolic and important message to our students if the Board
made a statement supporting LGBTQ+ young people. She passed out a draft and asked
the Board to look at it and give Superintendent Gordon feedback. She suggested that it
be added to a future Board agenda, noting that Pride Week is June 10 – 11, with the
idea of adopting something like this to make a statement to the community and our
students.

Trustee Brown expressed his support of the LGBTQ+ community.

Trustee Davis commented that she thinks it is our job to ensure that all students feel
safe and that it is their constitutional right and our responsibility. She also said that
parents should know their children are safe and protected.

Trustee Corona Sabeniano stated her support of Trustee Lefkovitz’s request and looks
forward to seeing the document come back before the Board. She said she has
participated in the Pride Parade in the past and suggested that if anybody would like to
join her this year, they could do it together. She also commented that she attended Cap
to Cap in Washington DC and went to some of the Education and Workforce
Development meetings. One of her “big take-aways” was that there is a general
sentiment that there is not a lot of money for some of the initiatives for which they were



05.02.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                              7
advocating but she learned that congressional members can lend their support to any of
these initiatives. More specifically, they can write a letter to a State or Federal Agency
or any other partner if we ask for their assistance and wanted to make the Board aware
of this potential opportunity. She also expressed her support of the Classified Employee
request to consider a path forward which allows telecommuting for employees when it
makes sense to do so.

Trustee Davis stated that she attended Cap to Cap this year and wishes she had
attended the first year she was on the SCOE Board. She felt it was an amazing
opportunity for SCOE to be seen and for others to know that we care and that we want
to build partnerships. She stated that she could not have had all the conversations she
had in the five days at Cap to Cap in the course of a year. She encouraged others to
attend. She commented that she attended the Department of Labor meetings where she
learned that studies show that the African American community is the lowest in
workforce strength and efforts are being made to improve it. Trustee Davis commented
that this is a partnership opportunity. She also learned that all the funding for
apprenticeship has been depleted. She spent a lot of time with the administration from
California State University, Sacramento and emphasized how important this relationship
is and that we are thankful for their partnership, and that we hope the incoming
President is aligned with the things that we want to keep working toward.

Trustee Fong spoke in support of the resolution Trustee Lefkovitz presented from
SCUSD and stated that we need to speak out on issues of concern for our young
people, not just on gay, pride, and lesbian issues but other issues as well. He also
expressed support for the Classified Employee request for telework.

Trustee Ahola expressed support for the resolution from SCUSD that Trustee Lefkovitz
referenced and looks forward to seeing it come back to the Board.

B. Board President

President Keefer stated that on Saturday, he attended the Kids Helping Kids Gala
featuring the rock band Switchfoot. The class of 54 students out of Del Campo High
School raised $140,000. The event included a live auction and was emceed by a
student who was coached by someone from Universal/Disney. He commented that he
mentions this because the event was run by youth and that they pulled off an event that
adults do all the time. Proceeds from the event go to aid families battling pediatric
cancer in Northern California. He stated that kids can do anything if we believe they can
do it. President Keefer concluded with reading a poem from Something to Keep written
by an El Centro student.

C. Committees

12. Items for Distribution

A. May/June Events and Site Visits



05.02.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                           8
13. Schedule of Future Board Meetings

A. May 16, 2023 and June 13, 2023

14. Adjournment

A. Adjourn the Meeting

Motion to adjourn the meeting by Trustee Brown, second by Trustee Ahola.

Final Resolution: Motion Carried
Yes: Trustees Corona Sabeniano, Lefkovitz, Keefer, Fong, Davis, Brown, Ahola

The meeting was adjourned at 8:25 p.m.




05.02.23 Board Meeting Minutes                                                 9
